The asbestos fiber, crocidolite, is unusually resilient.it enters the lungs.
the latest results appear in today's New England Journal of Medicine, a forum likely to bring new attention to the problem.preliminary findings were reported more than a year ago.
that hung over parts of the factory.exhaust fans ventilated the area.
There's no question that some of those workers and managers contracted asbestos-related diseases.you have to recognize that these events took place 35 years ago.
Longer maturities are thought to indicate declining interest rates.they permit portfolio managers to retain relatively higher rates for a longer period.
Shorter maturities are considered a sign of rising rates.portfolio managers can capture higher rates sooner.
to be a stronger indicator.those managers watch the market closely.
Yields on money-market mutual funds continued to slide, amid signs that portfolio managers expect further declines in interest rates.yields "may blip up again before they blip down" because of recent rises in short-term interest rates.
Nevertheless yields "may blip up again.they blip down" because of recent rises in short-term interest rates.
Nevertheless yields "may blip up again before they blip down" because of recent rises in short-term interest rates.The yield on six-month Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction rose to 8.04% from 7.90%.
Typically, money-fund yields beat comparable short-term investments.portfolio managers can vary maturities and go after the highest rates.
The federal government suspended sales of U.S. savings bonds.Congress hasn't lifted the ceiling on government debt.
the government hasn't any authority to issue new debt obligations of any kind.Congress acts.
The House has voted to raise the ceiling to $3.1 trillion.the Senate isn't expected to act until next week at the earliest.
the U.S. will default on Nov. 9.Congress doesn't act by then.
Clark J. Vitulli was named senior vice president and general manager of this U.S. sales and marketing arm of Japanese auto maker Mazda Motor Corp.Mr. Vitulli, 43 years old, was general marketing manager of Chrysler Corp. 's Chrysler division.
the nation's manufacturing titans typically jet off to the sunny confines of resort towns like Boca Raton and Hot Springs.it's time for their biannual powwow.
The National Association of Manufacturers settled on the Hoosier capital of Indianapolis for its fall board meeting.the city decided to treat its guests more like royalty or rock stars than factory owners.
The governor couldn't make it.the lieutenant governor welcomed the special guests.
A buffet breakfast was held in the museum.in the guests' honor, the speedway hauled out four drivers, crews and even the official Indianapolis 500 announcer for a 10-lap exhibition race.
Back downtown, the execs squeezed in a few meetings at the hotel.boarding the buses again.
Knowing a tasty -- and free -- meal.they eat one.
More than a few CEOs say the red-carpet treatment tempts them to return to a heartland city for future meetings.for now, they're looking forward to their winter meeting -- Boca in February.
Exports in October stood at $5.29 billion, a mere 0.7% increase from a year earlier.imports increased sharply to $5.39 billion, up 20% from last October.
Exports in October stood at $5.29 billion, a mere 0.7% increase from a year earlier.imports increased sharply to $5.39 billion, up 20% from last October.
In mid-October, Time magazine lowered its guaranteed circulation rate base for 1990.not increasing ad page rates.
In mid-October, Time magazine lowered its guaranteed circulation rate base for 1990.not increasing ad page rates.
The magazine will reward with "page bonuses" advertisers who in 1990 meet or exceed their 1989 spending.they spent $325,000 in 1989 and $340,000 in 1990.
What matters is what advertisers are paying per page.in that department we are doing fine this fall.
Both Newsweek and U.S. News have been gaining circulation in recent years without heavy use of electronic giveaways to subscribers, such as telephones or watches.none of the big three weeklies recorded circulation gains recently.
the risks were too high.the potential payoff too far in the future.
United Illuminating is based in New Haven, Conn.Northeast is based in Hartford, Conn.
the company's return on equity could suffer.it made a higher bid and its forecasts related to PS of New Hampshire -- such as growth in electricity demand and improved operating efficiencies -- didn't come true.
if it made a higher bid.its forecasts related to PS of New Hampshire -- such as growth in electricity demand and improved operating efficiencies -- didn't come true.
the risks seemed substantial and persistent over the next five years, and the rewards seemed a long way out.we evaluated raising our bid.
the risks seemed substantial and persistent over the next five years.the rewards seemed a long way out.
When we evaluated raising our bid, the risks seemed substantial and persistent over the next five years, and the rewards seemed a long way out..That got hard to take," he added.Mr. Rowe noted that political concerns also worried New England Electric.
the company's return on equity could suffer if it made a higher bid and its forecasts related to PS of New Hampshire -- such as growth in electricity demand and improved operating efficiencies -- didn't come true.that political concerns worried New England Electric.
its rates will be among the highest in the nation.it emerges from bankruptcy proceedings.
New England Electric System bowed out of the bidding for Public Service Co. of New Hampshire.the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission turned down for now a request by Northeast seeking approval of its possible purchase of PS of New Hampshire.
Separately, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission turned down for now a request by Northeast seeking approval of its possible purchase of PS of New Hampshire.and hopes for an expedited review by the FERC.
for an expedited review by the FERC.it could complete the purchase by next summer if its bid is the one approved by the bankruptcy court.
so that it could complete the purchase by next summer.its bid is the one approved by the bankruptcy court.
The refund was about $55 million more than previously ordered by the Illinois Commerce Commission.trade groups said it may be the largest ever required of a state or local utility.
In a disputed 1985 ruling, the Commerce Commission said Commonwealth Edison could raise its electricity rates by $49 million to pay for the plant.state courts upheld a challenge by consumer groups to the commission's rate increase and found the rates illegal.
Commonwealth Edison now faces an additional court-ordered refund on its summer/winter rate differential collections that the Illinois Appellate Court has estimated at $140 million.consumer groups hope that Judge Curry's Byron 1 order may set a precedent for a second nuclear rate case involving Commonwealth Edison's Braidwood 2 plant.
that Cray Research Inc. will withdraw the almost $100 million in financing it is providing the new firm.Mr. Cray leaves.
if Mr. Cray leaves.if the product-design project he heads is scrapped.
that Cray Research Inc. will withdraw the almost $100 million in financing it is providing the new firm.or the product-design project he heads is scrapped.
Documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the pending spinoff disclosed that Cray Research Inc. will withdraw the almost $100 million in financing it is providing the new firm if Mr. Cray leaves or if the product-design project he heads is scrapped.The documents said that although the 64-year-old Mr. Cray has been working on the project for more than six years, the Cray-3 machine is at least another year away from a fully operational prototype.
that the Cray-3 machine is at least another year away from a fully operational prototype.the 64-year-old Mr. Cray has been working on the project for more than six years.
that the Cray-3 machine is at least another year away from a fully operational prototype.there have been no orders for the Cray-3 so far.
Moreover, there have been no orders for the Cray-3 so far.it is talking with several prospects.
the strings it attached to the financing hadn't been made public until yesterday.many of the risks were anticipated when Minneapolis-based Cray Research first announced the spinoff in May.
While many of the risks were anticipated.Minneapolis-based Cray Research first announced the spinoff in May.
that Seymour is the chief designer of the Cray-3.without him it could not be completed.
that Seymour is the chief designer of the Cray-3.without him it could not be completed.
The documents also said that although the 64-year-old Mr. Cray has been working on the project for more than six years, the Cray-3 machine is at least another year away from a fully operational prototype.The documents said that Cray Computer anticipates needing perhaps another $120 million in financing beginning next September.
that Cray Computer anticipates needing perhaps another $120 million in financing beginning next September.Mr. Barnum called that "a worst-case" scenario.
You either believe Seymour can do it again.you don't.
The SEC documents describe those chips as being so fragile and minute they will require special robotic handling equipment.the Cray-3 will contain 16 processors -- twice as many as the largest current supercomputer.
In addition, the Cray-3 will contain 16 processors -- twice as many as the largest current supercomputer.Cray Computer will face intense competition, not only from Cray Research.
Cray Computer also will face intense competition, not only from Cray Research.The spinoff will compete with International Business Machines Corp. and Japan's Big Three -- Hitachi Ltd., NEC Corp. and Fujitsu Ltd.
No price for the new shares has been set.the companies will leave it up to the marketplace to decide.
Without the Cray-3 research and development expenses, the company would have been able to report a profit of $19.3 million for the first half of 1989 rather than the $5.9 million it posted.had it existed then, Cray Computer would have incurred a $20.5 million loss.
Arthur A. Hatch, 59, was named executive vice president of the company.He was president of the company's Eastern Edison Co. unit.
John D. Carney, 45, was named to succeed Mr. Hatch as president of Eastern Edison.he was vice president of Eastern Edison.
Robert P. Tassinari, 63, was named senior vice president of Eastern Utilities.He was vice president.
The U.S. removed South Korea, Taiwan and Saudi Arabia from a list of countries it is closely watching for allegedly failing to honor U.S. patents, copyrights and other intellectual-property rights.five other countries -- China, Thailand, India, Brazil and Mexico -- will remain on that so-called priority watch list as a result of an interim review.
Under the new U.S. trade law, those countries could face accelerated unfair-trade investigations and stiff trade sanctions.they don't improve their protection of intellectual property by next spring.
for creating an intellectual-property task force and special enforcement teams of police officers and prosecutors trained to pursue movie and book pirates.Seoul has instituted effective search-and-seizure procedures to aid these teams.
to enact a copyright law compatible with international standards.to apply the law to computer software as well as to literary works.
Mrs. Hills lauded South Korea for creating an intellectual-property task force and special enforcement teams of police officers and prosecutors trained to pursue movie and book pirates..Seoul also has instituted effective search-and-seizure procedures to aid these teams, she said..Taiwan has improved its standing with the U.S. by initialing a bilateral copyright agreement, amending its trademark law and introducing legislation to protect foreign movie producers from unauthorized showings of their films..That measure could compel Taipei's growing number of small video-viewing parlors to pay movie producers for showing their films..Saudi Arabia, for its part, has vowed to enact a copyright law compatible with international standards and to apply the law to computer software as well as to literary works, Mrs. Hills said.These three countries aren't completely off the hook.
Those countries -- including Japan, Italy, Canada, Greece and Spain -- are still of some concern to the U.S.are deemed to pose less-serious problems for American patent and copyright owners than those on the "priority" list.
She didn't elaborate.earlier U.S. trade reports have complained of videocassette piracy in Malaysia and disregard for U.S. pharmaceutical patents in Turkey.
Mr. Rapanelli recently has said the government of President Carlos Menem, who took office July 8, feels a significant reduction of principal and interest is the only way the debt problem may be solved.he has not said before that the country wants half the debt forgiven.
The computers were crude by today's standards.Apple II owners had to use their television sets as screens and stored data on audiocassettes.
The computers were crude by today's standards.Apple II was a major advance from Apple I.
But Apple II was a major advance from Apple I.the Apple II was an affordable $1,298.
Big mainframe computers for business had been around for years.the new 1977 PCs -- unlike earlier built-from-kit types such as the Altair, Sol and IMSAI -- had keyboards and could store about two pages of data in their memories.
William Gates and Paul Allen in 1975 developed an early language-housekeeper system for PCs.Gates became an industry billionaire six years after IBM adapted one of these versions in 1981.
and Gates became an industry billionaire.IBM adapted one of these versions in 1981.
IBM, the world leader in computers, didn't offer its first PC until August 1981.many other companies entered the market.
Output will be gradually increased.it reaches about 11,000 barrels a day.
The Perch and Dolphin fields are expected to start producing early next year.the Seahorse and Tarwhine fields later next year.
the fields were developed.the Australian government decided in 1987 to make the first 30 million barrels from new fields free of excise tax.
President Bush has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches.watch imports were denied such duty-free treatment.
Mr. Bush decided to grant duty-free status for 18 categories.turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands.
Magna International Inc. 's chief financial officer, James McAlpine, resigned.its chairman, Frank Stronach, is stepping in to help turn the automotive-parts manufacturer around.
Mr. Stronach will direct an effort to reduce overhead and curb capital spending.a more satisfactory level of profit is achieved and maintained.
An ambitious expansion has left Magna with excess capacity and a heavy debt load.the automotive industry enters a downturn.
Magna recently cut its quarterly dividend in half.the company's Class A shares are wallowing far below their 52-week high of 16.125 Canadian dollars (US$13.73).
mortgage-backed securities can be retired early.interest rates decline.
mortgage-backed securities can be retired early if interest rates decline.such prepayment forces investors to redeploy their money at lower rates.
Such devices have boosted Japanese investment in mortgage-backed securities to more than 1% of the $900 billion in such instruments outstanding.their purchases are growing at a rapid rate.
Such devices have boosted Japanese investment in mortgage-backed securities to more than 1% of the $900 billion in such instruments outstanding, and their purchases are growing at a rapid rate.They have become large purchasers of Fannie Mae's corporate debt, buying $2.4 billion in Fannie Mae bonds during the first nine months of the year, or almost a tenth of the total amount issued.
giving it court protection from creditors' lawsuits.it attempts to work out a plan to pay its debts.
People are looking to stake their claims" now.the number of available nations runs out.
securities firms have scrambled to find new products that brokers find easy to sell.individual investors have turned away from the stock market over the years.
securities firms have scrambled to find new products that brokers find easy to sell.individual investors have turned away from the stock market over the years.
securities firms have scrambled to find new products that brokers find easy to sell.the firms are stretching their nets far and wide to do it.
Financial planners often urge investors to diversify and to hold a smattering of international securities.many emerging markets have outpaced more mature markets, such as the U.S. and Japan.
Country funds offer an easy way to get a taste of foreign stocks without the hard research of seeking out individual companies.it doesn't take much to get burned.
for instance, the Mexico Fund plunged about 18% and the Spain Fund fell 16%.the stock market dropped nearly 7% Oct. 13.
for instance, the Mexico Fund plunged about 18% and the Spain Fund fell 16%.the stock market dropped nearly 7% Oct. 13.
Another concern: The funds' share prices tend to swing more than the broader market.When the stock market dropped nearly 7% Oct. 13 the Mexico Fund plunged about 18% and the Spain Fund fell 16%.
for instance, the Mexico Fund plunged about 18%.the Spain Fund fell 16%.
for instance, the Mexico Fund plunged about 18% and the Spain Fund fell 16%.most country funds were clobbered more than most stocks after the 1987 crash.
country funds currently trade at an average premium of 6%.trading at an average discount of more than 20% in late 1987 and part of last year.
It's probably worth paying a premium for funds that invest in markets that are partially closed to foreign investors, such as South Korea.some European funds recently have skyrocketed.
But some European funds recently have skyrocketed; Spain Fund has surged to a startling 120% premium.several new funds that aren't even fully invested yet have jumped to trade at big premiums.
Unlike many U.S. investors, those in Asia or Europe seeking foreign-stock exposure may be less resistant to paying higher prices for country funds.plenty of U.S. analysts and money managers are aghast at the lofty trading levels of some country funds.
it could clear the way for Soviet bonds to be sold in the U.S.the debts are repaid.
If the debts are repaid, it could clear the way for Soviet bonds to be sold in the U.S.after two meetings with the Soviets, a State Department spokesman said that it's "too early to say" whether that will happen.
The branch of the Bank for Foreign Economic Affairs was approved last spring and opened in July.a Soviet bank here would be crippled unless Moscow found a way to settle the $188 million debt.
But a Soviet bank here would be crippled.Moscow found a way to settle the $188 million debt.
which was lent to the country's short-lived democratic Kerensky government.the Communists seized power in 1917.
Under a 1934 law, the Johnson Debt Default Act, as amended, it's illegal for Americans to extend credit to countries in default to the U.S. government.they are members of the World Bank and International Monetary Fund.
The State Department stressed the pre-1933 debts as the key to satisfying the Johnson Act.the Soviets might still face legal obstacles to raising money in the U.S. until they settle hundreds of millions of dollars in additional debt still outstanding from the World War II lend-lease program.
The State Department stressed the pre-1933 debts as the key to satisfying the Johnson Act.But the Soviets might face legal obstacles to raising money in the U.S. until they settle hundreds of millions of dollars in additional debt still outstanding from the World War II lend-lease program.
But the Soviets might still face legal obstacles to raising money in the U.S.they settle hundreds of millions of dollars in additional debt still outstanding from the World War II lend-lease program.
In another reflection that the growth of the economy is leveling off, the government said that orders for manufactured goods and spending on construction failed to rise in September.the National Association of Purchasing Management said its latest survey indicated that the manufacturing economy contracted in October for the sixth consecutive month.
In another reflection that the growth of the economy is leveling off, the government said that orders for manufactured goods and spending on construction failed to rise in September.the National Association of Purchasing Management said its latest survey indicated that the manufacturing economy contracted in October for the sixth consecutive month.
that the manufacturing economy contracted in October for the sixth consecutive month.that orders turned up in October after four months of decline.
Meanwhile, the National Association of Purchasing Management said its latest survey indicated that the manufacturing economy contracted in October for the sixth consecutive month.The purchasing managers, however said that orders turned up in October after four months of decline.
Private construction spending was down.government building activity was up.
The figures in both reports were adjusted to remove the effects of usual seasonal patterns.weren't adjusted for inflation.
By most measures, the nation's industrial sector is now growing very slowly -- if at all.many economists aren't predicting that the economy is about to slip into recession.
that provide early warning signals of a downturn.Inventories are closely watched for such clues.
Economists say a buildup in inventories can provoke cutbacks in production that can lead to a recession.yesterday's factory orders report had good news on that front.
orders for nondurable goods -- those intended to last fewer than three years -- fell 0.3% in September to $109.73 billion.climbing 0.9% the month before.
Orders for durable goods were up 0.2% to $127.03 billion.rising 3.9% the month before.
Factory shipments fell 1.6% to $234.4 billion.rising 5.4% in August.
construction spending didn't change in September.adjusting for inflation.
The goverment counts money.it is spent.
Dodge counts contracts.they are awarded.
it isn't signaling an imminent recession.the purchasing managers' index continues to indicate a slowing economy.
that the nation's export growth may be slowing.still continuing.
Only 19% of the purchasing managers reported better export orders in October, down from 27% in September.8% said export orders were down last month, compared with 6% the month before.
The report offered new evidence that the nation's export growth, though still continuing, may be slowing.The purhasing managers' report added evidence that inflation is under control.
For the fifth consecutive month, purchasing managers said prices for the goods they purchased fell.They said that vendors were delivering goods more quickly in October than they had for each of the five previous months.
prices tend to rise.demand is stronger than suppliers can handle and delivery times lengthen.
prices tend to rise.demand is stronger than suppliers can handle and delivery times lengthen.
When demand is stronger than suppliers can handle.delivery times lengthen.
that of the 73% who import, 10% said they imported more in October.12% said they imported less than the previous month.
It does lead you to suspect imports are going down, or at least not increasing that much.one month's figures don't prove a trend.
Items listed as being in short supply numbered only about a dozen.they included one newcomer: milk and milk powder.
the novel's texture is almost entirely Western, especially American.set in Japan.
For an American reader, part of the charm of this engaging novel should come in recognizing that Japan isn't the buttoned-down society of contemporary American lore.It's refreshing to read a Japanese author who clearly doesn't belong to the self-aggrandizing "we-Japanese" school of writers who perpetuate the notion of the unique Japanese, unfathomable by outsiders.
it's that the Japanese are more like us than most of us think.A Wild Sheep Chase" carries an implicit message for international relations.
A more recent novel, "Norwegian Wood" has sold more than four million copies.Kodansha published it in 1987.
The 40-year-old Mr. Murakami is a publishing sensation in Japan.he is just one of several youthful writers -- Tokyo's brat pack -- who are dominating the best-seller charts in Japan.
Wa" is Japanese for "team spirit.Japanese ballplayers have miles and miles of it.
As Mr. Whiting describes it, Nipponese baseball is a "mirror of Japan's fabled virtues of hard work and harmony.other than the fact that besuboru is played with a ball and a bat, it's unrecognizable.
ties are permitted -- even welcomed.they honorably sidestep the shame of defeat.
players must abide by strict rules of conduct even in their personal lives.players for the Tokyo Giants must always wear ties when on the road.
players for the Tokyo Giants, for example, must always wear ties.on the road.
whom Sony hosted for a year to the regret of both parties.he was on a Luce Fellowship in Tokyo.
that only the assistant manager can talk to the manager.the manager to the general manager.
It's probably true that many salarymen put in unproductive overtime just for the sake of solidarity, that the system is so hierarchical that only the assistant manager can talk to the manager and the manager to the general manager.that Sony was chary of letting a young, short-term American employee take on any responsibility.
All of this must have been enormously frustrating to Mr. Katzenstein, who went to Sony with degrees in business and computer science and was raring to invent another Walkman.Sony ultimately took a lesson from the American management books and fired Mr. Katzenstein.
and fired Mr. Katzenstein.he committed the social crime of making an appointment to see the venerable Akio Morita, founder of Sony.
and fired Mr. Katzenstein.he committed the social crime of making an appointment to see the venerable Akio Morita, founder of Sony.
Mr. Katzenstein certainly would have learned something.it's even possible Mr. Morita would have too.
smokers to put out their cigarettes.entering restaurants, department stores and sports centers.
Discos and private clubs are exempt from the ban.smoking will be permitted in bars except during meal hours.
A marketing study indicates that Hong Kong consumers are the most materialistic in the 14 major markets where the survey was carried out.The study by the Backer Spielvogel Bates ad agency found that the colony's consumers feel more pressured than those in any of the other surveyed markets, which include the U.S. and Japan.
The meeting was going to be held at the Central Plaza Hotel.the government balked at the hotel's conditions for undertaking necessary expansion.
all the man's associates and family were tested.the disease was confirmed.
all the man's associates and family were tested.none have so far been found to have AIDS.
In a victory for environmentalists, Hungary's parliament terminated a multibillion-dollar River Danube dam being built by Austrian firms.which wants the dam to be built.
that Czechoslovakia and Hungary would suffer environmental damage.the twin dams were built as planned.
it could seek $2 billion from Hungary.the twindam contract were broken.
A painting by August Strindberg set a Scandinavian price record.it sold at auction in Stockholm for $2.44 million.
After years of decline, weddings in France showed a 2.2% upturn last year, with 6,000 more couples exchanging rings in 1988 than in the previous year.the number of weddings last year -- 271,124 -- was still well below the 400,000 registered in 1972, the last year of increasing marriages.
As an actor, Charles Lane isn't the inheritor of Charlie Chaplin's spirit..Steve Martin has already laid his claim to that.it is Mr. Lane, as movie director, producer and writer, who has been obsessed with refitting Chaplin's Little Tramp in a contemporary way.
Of course Mr. Lane's Artist would be called a homeless person.the film contained dialogue.
I say "contained dialogue.Sidewalk Stories" isn't really silent at all.
Much of Mr. Lane's film takes a highly romanticized view of life on the streets.probably no more romanticized than Mr. Chaplin's notion of the Tramp as the good-hearted free spirit.
noticing one another.they jostle for cabs.
noticing one another.they jostle for cabs.
He is his own man.the Artist is put in charge of returning a two-year-old waif (Nicole Alysia), whose father has been murdered by thugs, to her mother.
He is his own man.the Artist is put in charge of returning a two-year-old waif (Nicole Alysia), whose father has been murdered by thugs, to her mother.
She gives the Artist a sense of purpose.but alerts him to the serious inadequacy of his vagrant life.
The beds at the Bowery Mission seem far drearier.he has to tuck a little girl into one of them at night.
The beds at the Bowery Mission seem far drearier.he has to tuck a little girl into one of them at night.
who owns her own children's shop.who lives in an expensive high-rise apartment building.
This story line might resonate more strongly.Mr. Lane had as strong a presence in front of the camera as he does behind it.
He has a point he wants to make.he makes it, with a great deal of force.
The movie ends with sound, the sound of street people talking.there isn't anything whimsical or enviable in those rough, beaten voices.
who, viewed from the most sympathetic angle, would seem disagreeable.this woman, Marie-Louise Giraud, carries historical significance, both as one of the last women to be executed in France and as a symbol of the Vichy government's hypocrisy.
its officials needed a diversionary symbolic traitor.Vichy collaborated with the Germans during World War II in the deaths of thousands of Resistance fighters and Jews.
its officials needed a diversionary symbolic traitor.Vichy collaborated with the Germans during World War II in the deaths of thousands of Resistance fighters and Jews.
and continued.it enabled her to buy jam, cocoa and other war-rationed goodies.
she was dreadful to her war-damaged husband.she was kind and playful to her children.
Marie-Louise (called Marie Latour in the film) was not a nice person.she didn't deserve to have her head chopped off.
I mention the picture.many bad movies have a bright spot, and this one has Gregory Peck, in a marvelously loose and energetic portrayal of an old man who wants to die the way he wants to die.
only because many bad movies have a bright spot.this one has Gregory Peck, in a marvelously loose and energetic portrayal of an old man who wants to die the way he wants to die.
take a look at "City Lights," Chaplin's Tramp at his finest.seeing "Sidewalk Stories.
The discussions are still in preliminary stages.the specific details haven't been worked out between the Seattle aerospace company and Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd., Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd. and Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd.
the plane could hit the market in the mid-1990s.Boeing goes ahead with the larger 767.
that the attack commercial has come of age in an off-off election year with only a few contests scattered across the country.getting a boost in last year's presidential campaign.
The irony is that the attack commercial, after getting a boost in last year's presidential campaign, has come of age in an off-off election year with only a few contests scattered across the country.in the three leading political contests of 1989, the negative ads have reached new levels of hostility.
To get people's attention these days your TV ad needs to be bold and entertaining.more often than not, that means confrontational.
and, more often than not, that means confrontational.unlike a few years ago, you don't even have to worry whether the ad is truthful.
In 1989, as often as not, the principal fights in the major campaigns are prompted by the ads themselves.Take a look at the main attack commercials that set the tone for Tuesday's elections in New York City, New Jersey and Virginia.
David Dinkins failed to file his income taxes for four straight years," says a disembodied male voice.then this television commercial really gets down to business.
David Dinkins failed to file his income taxes for four straight years," says a disembodied male voice.And this television commercial really gets down to business.
David Dinkins failed to file his income taxes for four straight years.Mr. Dinkins failed to report his campaign contributions accurately, hid his links to a failing insurance company and paid a convicted kidnapper "through a phony organization with no members, no receipts and no office.
David Dinkins Why does he always wait.he's caught.
Mr. Dinkins did fail to file his income taxes for four years.he insists he voluntarily admitted the "oversight" when he was being considered for a city job.
he voluntarily admitted the "oversight.he was being considered for a city job.
He was on the board of an insurance company with financial problems.he insists he made no secret of it.
The city's Campaign Finance Board has refused to pay Mr. Dinkins $95,142 in matching funds.his campaign records are incomplete.
The campaign has blamed these reporting problems on computer errors.he didn't know the man his campaign paid for a get-out-the-vote effort had been convicted of kidnapping.
And he didn't know the man his campaign paid for a get-out-the-vote effort had been convicted of kidnapping.he did have an office and his organization did have members.
But he did have an office.his organization did have members.
Giuliani has always been pro-choice.he has personal reservations.
he is generally opposed to cop-killer bullets.that he had some reservations about the language in the legislation.
Against a shot of Monticello superimposed on an American flag, an announcer talks about the "strong tradition of freedom and individual liberty" that Virginians have nurtured for generations.just as an image of the statue of Thomas Jefferson dissolves from the screen, the announcer continues: "On the issue of abortion, Marshall Coleman wants to take away your right to choose and give it to the politicians.
Against a shot of Monticello superimposed on an American flag, an announcer talks about the "strong tradition of freedom and individual liberty" that Virginians have nurtured for generations.just as an image of the statue of Thomas Jefferson dissolves from the screen, the announcer continues: "On the issue of abortion, Marshall Coleman wants to take away your right to choose and give it to the politicians.
Then the announcer continues: "On the issue of abortion, Marshall Coleman wants to take away your right to choose and give it to the politicians.an image of the statue of Thomas Jefferson dissolves from the screen.
The Coleman counterattack featured a close-up of a young woman in shadows.the ad suggested that she was recalling an unpleasant courtroom ordeal.
A voice says, "C'mon, now, don't you have boyfriends.an announcer interjects: "It was Douglas Wilder who introduced a bill to force rape victims age 13 and younger to be interrogated about their private lives by lawyers for accused rapists.
It was Douglas Wilder who introduced a bill to force rape victims age 13 and younger to be interrogated about their private lives by lawyers for accused rapists.the next time Mr. Wilder talks about the rights of women, ask him about this law he tried to pass.
Mr. Wilder did introduce such legislation 17 years ago.he did so at the request of a constituent, a common legislative technique used by lawmakers.
The legislation itself noted that it was introduced "by request.in 1983 Mr. Wilder introduced a bill to protect rape victims from unfounded interrogation.
People have grown tired of these ads.Coleman has gotten the stigma of being a negative campaigner.
Mr. Coleman said this week that he would devote the remainder of the political season to positive campaigning.the truce lasted only hours.
The attacks began.Democratic Rep. James Florio aired an ad featuring a drawing of Pinocchio and a photograph of Mr. Florio's rival, Republican Rep. Jim Courter.
The attacks began.Democratic Rep. James Florio aired an ad featuring a drawing of Pinocchio and a photograph of Mr. Florio's rival, Republican Rep. Jim Courter.
The attacks began when Democratic Rep. James Florio aired an ad featuring a drawing of Pinocchio and a photograph of Mr. Florio's rival, Republican Rep. Jim Courter. "Remember Pinocchio?" says a female voice. "Consider Jim Courter.then this commercial, produced by Bob Squier, gets down to its own mean and dirty business.
Remember Pinocchio?" says a female voice. "Consider Jim Courter.And this commercial gets down to its own mean and dirty business.
Pictures of rusted oil drums swim into focus.the female voice purrs, "That hazardous waste on his {Mr..Courter's} property -- the neighbors are suing for consumer fraud.
Pictures of rusted oil drums swim into focus, and the female voice purrs, "That hazardous waste on his {Mr..Courter's} property -- the neighbors are suing for consumer fraud.the nose on Mr. Courter's face grows.
The only fraud involved is the Florio commercial itself.so the Courter campaign has responded with its own Pinocchio commercial.
The only fraud involved is the Florio commercial itself.and the Courter campaign has responded with its own Pinocchio commercial, produced by Mr. Ailes.
Florio's lying.the barrel on Courter's land . . . contained heating oil, was cleaned up and caused no pollution.
Mr. Courter's long nose shrinks.Mr. Florio's grows.
Barrels were dumped on the Courter property, a complaint was made.there is no evidence the barrels were a serious threat to the environment.
Even so, according to Mr. Salmore, the ad was "devastating.it raised questions about Mr. Courter's credibility.
Even so, according to Mr. Salmore, the ad was "devastating" because it raised questions about Mr. Courter's credibility.it's building on a long tradition.
O'Connor is your man.you want to keep the crime rates high.
that Japanese capital may produce the economic cooperation that Southeast Asian politicians have pursued in fits and starts for decades.Japan's power in the region also is sparking fears of domination and posing fresh policy questions.
that Japanese capital may produce the economic cooperation that Southeast Asian politicians have pursued in fits and starts for decades.But Japan's power in the region is sparking fears of domination and posing fresh policy questions.
In the past five years, Japanese companies have tripled their commitments in Asia to $5.57 billion.In Thailand the government's Board of Investment approved $705.6 million of Japanese investment in 1988, 10 times the U.S. investment figure for the year.
In the past five years, Japanese companies have tripled their commitments in Asia to $5.57 billion.Japan's commitment in Southeast Asia includes steep increases in foreign assistance and trade.
Japanese investment in Southeast Asia is propelling the region toward economic integration.These nations are contributing to Southeast Asia's integration, but their influence will remain subordinate to Japan's.
These nations also are contributing to Southeast Asia's integration.their influence will remain subordinate to Japan's.
For recipient countries such as Thailand and Malaysia, the investment will provide needed jobs and spur growth.Asian nations' harsh memories of their military domination by Japan in the early part of this century make them fearful of falling under Japanese economic hegemony now.
Because of budget constraints in Washington, the U.S. encourages Japan to share economic burdens in the region.it resists yielding political ground.
In the coming decade U.S.-Japanese relations will be tested.Tokyo comes to terms with its new status as the region's economic behemoth.
In the coming decade U.S.-Japanese relations will be tested.Tokyo comes to terms with its new status as the region's economic behemoth.
Japanese money will help turn Southeast Asia into a more cohesive economic region.Asian cooperation isn't likely to parallel the European Common Market approach.
But Asian cooperation isn't likely to parallel the European Common Market approach.Japanese investment will spur integration of certain sectors.
Rather, Japanese investment will spur integration of certain sectors.In electronics a Japanese company might make television picture tubes in Japan, assemble the sets in Malaysia and export them to Indonesia.
Japanese money will help turn Southeast Asia into a more cohesive economic region.Countries in the region are beginning to consider a framework for closer economic and political ties.
The economic and foreign ministers of 12 Asian and Pacific nations will meet in Australia next week to discuss global trade issues as well as regional matters such as transportation and telecommunications.the U.S. this year offered its own plan for cooperation around the Pacific rim in a major speech by Secretary of State James Baker, following up a proposal made in January by Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke.
The U.S., with its regional friends, must play a crucial role in designing its architecture.maintaining U.S. influence will be difficult in the face of Japanese dominance in the region.
Japan not only outstrips the U.S. in investment flows.but outranks it in trade with most Southeast Asian countries.
Japan not only outstrips the U.S. in investment flows but also outranks it in trade with most Southeast Asian countries.the U.S. remains the leading trade partner for all of Asia.
Japan not only outstrips the U.S. in investment flows but also outranks it in trade with most Southeast Asian countries.the Japanese government, now the world's largest aid donor, is pumping far more assistance into the region than the U.S. is.
they also convey an undertone of caution.U.S. officials voice optimism about Japan's enlarged role in Asia.
While U.S. officials voice optimism about Japan's enlarged role in Asia.they convey an undertone of caution.
there will be a net gain for everyone.they approach it with a benevolent, altruistic attitude.
she spotted a student looking at crib sheets.giving the Comprehensive Test of Basic Skills to ninth graders at Greenville High School last March 16.
She had seen cheating before.these notes were uncanny.
The Senate-House conference committee is used.a bill is passed by the House and Senate in different forms.
The Senate-House conference committee is used.a bill is passed by the House and Senate in different forms.
Virtually word for word, the notes matched questions and answers on the social-studies section of the test the student was taking.the student had the answers to almost all of the 40 questions in that section.
She was an unstinting teacher who won laurels and inspired students.she will probably never teach again.
Her story is partly one of personal downfall.Mrs. Yeargin's case casts some light on the dark side of school reform, where pressures on teachers are growing and where high-stakes testing has enhanced the temptation to cheat.
There is incredible pressure on school systems and teachers to raise test scores.efforts to beat the tests are also on the rise.
There is incredible pressure on school systems and teachers to raise test scores.So efforts to beat the tests are on the rise.
There is incredible pressure on school systems and teachers to raise test scores So efforts to beat the tests are also on the rise.most disturbing, it is educators, not students, who are blamed for much of the wrongdoing.
standardized achievement test scores are greatly inflated.teachers often "teach the test.
because teachers often "teach the test.most are never caught.
Texas is revising its security practices.numerous occurrences of questionable teacher help to students.
Texas is revising its security practices.numerous occurrences of questionable teacher help to students.
After numerous occurrences of questionable teacher help to students, Texas is revising its security practices.sales of test-coaching booklets for classroom instruction are booming.
Under the state's Education Improvement Act, low test scores can block students' promotions or force entire districts into wrenching, state-supervised "interventions" that can mean firings.High test scores bring recognition and extra money -- a new computer lab for a school, grants for special projects, a bonus for the superintendent.
for example, no state has posted a higher rate of improvement on the Scholastic Aptitude Test than South Carolina.the reforms went in place.
And South Carolina says it is getting results.Since the reforms went in place no state has posted a higher rate of improvement on the Scholastic Aptitude Test than South Carolina.
Since the reforms went in place, for example, no state has posted a higher rate of improvement on the Scholastic Aptitude Test than South Carolina.the state still posts the lowest average score of the about 21 states who use the SAT as the primary college entrance examination.
prosecuting Mrs. Yeargin is "a way for administrators to protect themselves and look like they take cheating seriously.in fact they don't take it seriously at all.
and look like they take cheating seriously.when they don't take it seriously at all.
Mr. Cannell's allegations of cheating "are purely without foundation," and based on unfair inferences.the state will begin keeping closer track of achievement-test preparation booklets next spring.
Standing on a shaded hill in a run-down area of this old textile city, the school has educated many of South Carolina's best and brightest, including the state's last two governors, Nobel Prize winning physicist Charles Townes and actress Joanne Woodward.by the early 1980s, its glory had faded like the yellow bricks of its broad facade.
Crime was awful, test scores were low.there was no enrollment in honors programs.
Mrs. Ward resolved to clean out "deadwood" in the school's faculty and restore safety.she also had some new factors working in her behalf.
Mrs. Ward resolved to clean out "deadwood" in the school's faculty and restore safety.and she had some new factors working in her behalf.
Mrs. Yeargin worked 14-hour days and fast became a student favorite.Mrs. Ward fired and restructured staff and struggled to improve curriculum.
She says that because of Mrs. Yeargin she gave up ambitions in architecture and is studying to become a teacher.Mary Beth Marchand, a Greenville 11th grader says Mrs. Yeargin inspired her to go into education.
While Mrs. Ward fired and restructured staff and struggled to improve curriculum, Mrs. Yeargin worked 14-hour days and fast became a student favorite..In 1986-87 and 1987-88, she applied for and won bonus pay under the reform law..Encouraged by Mrs. Ward, Mrs. Yeargin taught honor students in the state "teacher cadet" program, a reform creation designed to encourage good students to consider teaching as a career..She won grant money for the school, advised cheerleaders, ran the pep club, proposed and taught a new "Cultural Literacy" class in Western Civilization and was chosen by the school PTA as "Teacher of the Year."."She was an inspirational lady; she had it all together," says Laura Dobson, a freshman at the University of South Carolina who had Mrs. Yeargin in the teacher-cadet class last year..She says that because of Mrs. Yeargin she gave up ambitions in architecture and is studying to become a teacher..Mary Beth Marchand, a Greenville 11th grader, also says Mrs. Yeargin inspired her to go into education. "She taught us more in Western Civilization than I've ever learned in other classes," says Kelli Green, a Greenville senior..In the classroom, students say, Mrs. Yeargin distinguished herself by varying teaching approaches -- forcing kids to pair up to complete classroom work or using college-bowl type competitions..On weekends, she came to work to prepare study plans or sometimes, even to polish the furniture in her classroom.."She just never gave it up," says Mary Marchand, Mary Beth's mother. "You'd see her correcting homework in the stands at a football game.Some fellow teachers viewed Mrs. Yeargin as cocky and too yielding to students.
and fast became a student favorite.Mrs. Yeargin's extra work was helping her earn points in the state's incentive-bonus program.
Mrs. Yeargin's extra work was also helping her earn points in the state's incentive-bonus program.the most important source of points was student improvement on tests.
Winning a bonus for a third year wasn't that important to her, Mrs. Yeargin insists.others at Greenville High say she was eager to win -- if not for money, then for pride and recognition.
Mrs. Yeargin wanted to keep her standing high.she could get a new job that wouldn't demand good hearing.
Mrs. Yeargin wanted to keep her standing high so she could get a new job that wouldn't demand good hearing.Mrs. Yeargin was interested in a possible job with the state teacher cadet program.
Last March she returned to Greenville two days before annual testing feeling that she hadn't prepared her low-ability geography students adequately.attending a teaching seminar in Washington.
she copied questions in the social studies section and gave the answers to students.test booklets were passed out 48 hours ahead of time.
I was trying to help kids in an unfair testing situation.that she wanted to help lift Greenville High School's overall test scores, usually near the bottom of 14 district high schools in rankings carried annually by local newspapers.
A whole day goes by.no one even knows they're alive.
They found students in an advanced class a year earlier who said she gave them similar help.because the case wasn't tried in court, this evidence was never presented publicly.
although this evidence was never presented publicly.the case wasn't tried in court.
that she wanted to avoid the morale-damaging public disclosure that a trial would bring.the cheating was discovered.
Editorials in the Greenville newspaper allowed that Mrs. Yeargin was wrong.but said the case showed how testing was being overused.
Partly because of the show the district decided not to recommend Mrs. Yeargin for a first-time offenders program that could have expunged the charges and the conviction from her record.legal authorities cranked up an investigation worthy of a murder case.
Partly because of the show the district decided not to recommend Mrs. Yeargin for a first-time offenders program that could have expunged the charges and the conviction from her record..And legal authorities cranked up an investigation worthy of a murder case.At Greenville High School some students -- especially on the cheerleading squad -- were crushed.
We work damn hard at what we do for damn little pay.what she did cast unfair aspersions on all of us.
She did a lot of harm," says Cathryn Rice, who had discovered the crib notes. "We work damn hard at what we do for damn little pay, and what she did cast unfair aspersions on all of us.several teachers also say the incident casts doubt on the wisdom of evaluating teachers or schools by using standardized test scores.
We work damn hard at what we do for damn little pay, and what she did cast unfair aspersions on all of us.the incident casts doubt on the wisdom of evaluating teachers or schools by using standardized test scores.
she pleaded guilty.she realized it would no longer be possible to win reinstatement.
because she realized it would no longer be possible to win reinstatement.because she was afraid of further charges.
she pleaded guilty.she was afraid of further charges.
schoolchildren have wanted to know: What's on the test.chalk first touched slate.
The mathematics section of the widely used California Achievement Test asks fifth graders: "What is another name for the Roman numeral IX.It asks them to add two-sevenths and three-sevenths.
Close parallels between tests and practice tests are common.some practice products are so similar to the tests themselves that critics say they represent a form of school-sponsored cheating.
I'd have a hard time justifying to my students and parents that it wasn't cheating.I took {these preparation booklets} into my classroom.
It's as if France decided to give only French history questions to students in a European history class.when everybody aces the test, they say their kids are good in European history.
and they say their kids are good in European history.everybody aces the test.
and they say their kids are good in European history.everybody aces the test.
Sales figures of the test-prep materials aren't known.their reach into schools is significant.
well over 10 million" of its Scoring High test-preparation books have been sold since their introduction 10 years ago, with most sales in the last five years.About 20,000 sets of Learning Materials teachers' binders have been sold in the past four years.
Michael Kean, director of marketing for CTB Macmillan/McGraw, the Macmillan/McGraw division that publishes Learning Materials, says it isn't aimed at improving test scores.He asserted that exact questions weren't replicated.
he said it was coincidental.referred to the questions that matched.
the preparation kits wouldn't replicate too many, if their real intent was general instruction or even general familiarization with test procedures.many of these subskills -- the symmetry of geometrical figures, metric measurement of volume, or pie and bar graphs, for example -- are only a small part of the total fifth-grade curriculum.
the preparation kits wouldn't replicate too many.their real intent was general instruction or even general familiarization with test procedures.
Because many of these subskills -- the symmetry of geometrical figures, metric measurement of volume, or pie and bar graphs, for example -- are only a small part of the total fifth-grade curriculum the preparation kits wouldn't replicate too many, if their real intent was general instruction or even general familiarization with test procedures.Learning Materials matched on 66.5 of 69 subskills.
He said authors of Scoring High "scrupulously avoid" replicating exact questions.he doesn't deny that some items are similar.
it was a publication of Random House.Scoring High first came out in 1979.
Scoring High shouldn't be used.it represented a "parallel form" of the CAT and CTBS tests.
In a 1985 advisory to educators, McGraw-Hill said Scoring High shouldn't be used because it represented a "parallel form" of the CAT and CTBS tests.in 1988, McGraw-Hill purchased the Random House unit that publishes Scoring High.
But in 1988, McGraw-Hill purchased the Random House unit that publishes Scoring High.which became part of Macmillan/McGraw.
Medical researchers believe the transplantation of small amounts of fetal tissue into humans could help treat juvenile diabetes and such degenerative diseases as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's.anti-abortionists oppose such research because they worry that the development of therapies using fetal-tissue transplants could lead to an increase in abortions.
But anti-abortionists oppose such research.they worry that the development of therapies using fetal-tissue transplants could lead to an increase in abortions.
A majority of an NIH-appointed panel recommended late last year that the research continue under carefully controlled conditions.the issue became embroiled in politics as anti-abortion groups continued to oppose federal funding.
but the issue became embroiled in politics.anti-abortion groups continued to oppose federal funding.
but the issue became embroiled in politics.anti-abortion groups continued to oppose federal funding.
Several candidates have withdrawn their names from consideration.administration officials asked them for their views on abortion and fetal-tissue transplants.
Earlier this week, Dr. Sullivan tried to defuse these charges by stressing that candidates to head the NIH and the CDC will be judged by "standards of scientific and administrative excellence," not politics.the administration's handling of the fetal-tissue transplant issue disturbs many scientists.
there has to be a role for society to make judgments about its applications.scientific progress moves into uncharted ground.
that the debate has become polarized.no mechanism exists" for finding a middle ground.
Yale is one of the few medical institutions conducting privately funded research on fetal-tissue transplants.Dr. Genel warns that Dr. Mason's ruling may discourage private funding.
Despite the flap over transplants, federal funding of research involving fetal tissues will continue on a number of fronts.Such research may result in the ability to regenerate damaged tissues or to turn off genes that cause cancer" or to regulate genes that cause Down's syndrome, the leading cause of mental retardation, according to an NIH summary.
Despite the flap over transplants, federal funding of research involving fetal tissues will continue on a number of fronts.Such research may result in the ability to regenerate damaged tissues or to turn off genes that cause cancer" or to regulate genes that cause Down's syndrome, the leading cause of mental retardation, according to an NIH summary.
Rekindled hope that two New England states will allow broader interstate banking boosted Nasdaq's bank stocks.the over-the-counter market was up only slightly in lackluster trading.
The index of the 100 largest Nasdaq financial stocks rose modestly as well, gaining 1.28 to 449.04.the broader Nasdaq bank index, which tracks thrift issues, jumped 3.23 to 436.01.
The bank stocks got a boost.Connecticut Bank & Trust and Bank of New England said they no longer oppose pending legislation that would permit banks from other regions to merge with Connecticut and Massachusetts banks.
The bank stocks got a boost.Connecticut Bank & Trust and Bank of New England said they no longer oppose pending legislation that would permit banks from other regions to merge with Connecticut and Massachusetts banks.
The stocks of banking concerns based in Massachusetts weren't helped much by the announcement.many of those concerns have financial problems tied to their real-estate loan portfolios, making them unattractive takeover targets.
The stocks of banking concerns based in Massachusetts weren't helped much by the announcement because many of those concerns have financial problems tied to their real-estate loan portfolios, making them unattractive takeover targets.speculators, anticipating that Connecticut will approve a law permitting such interstate banking soon, immediately bid up shares of Connecticut banks on the news.
The Stamford, Conn., concern has agreed to a buy-out by Bank of New York in a transaction with an indicated value of about $100 a share that expires next August.because takeover stocks have returned to favor among investors.
Northeast Bancorp also fared well.takeover stocks have returned to favor among investors.
Valley Federal Savings & Loan, a California thrift issue, gained 1 to 4 1/4.reporting a third-quarter loss of $70.7 million after an $89.9 million pretax charge mostly related to its mobile home financing unit.
He said the company's core business remains strong.He said that after the charges, and "assuming no dramatic fluctuation in interest rates, the company expects to achieve near-record earnings in 1990.
its ADRs have jumped about 78%.the British auto maker became a takeover target last month.
POP Radio's shares tumbled 4 to 14 3/4.troubled Heritage Media proposed acquiring POP Radio in a stock swap.
These individuals may not necessarily be under investigation.they hire lawyers.
that clients who pay cash may include alleged drug dealers who don't have domestic bank accounts.there may be other circumstances under which individuals wouldn't want the government to know they had retained criminal defense lawyers.
Mr. Ross said IRS officials opposed the Justice Department's moderate stance on the matter.in the letters sent in recent days, Christopher J. Lezovich of the IRS computing center in Detroit, told attorneys that "failing to voluntarily submit the requested information could result in summons enforcement action being initiated.
A spokesman for the IRS confirmed that "there has been correspondence mailed about incomplete 8300s.he declined to say why the letters were sent to lawyers now.
that that data could quickly end up in the hands of prosecutors.they provide information about clients.
Prosecutors need court permission to obtain the tax returns of an individual or a business.they have obtained 8300 forms without court permission and used the information to help develop criminal cases.
A couple of my law clerks were going to pass me in three or four years.I was afraid I was going to have to ask them for a loan.
Judges are not getting what they deserve..You look around at professional ballplayers or accountants.nobody blinks an eye.
all of a sudden you are relegated to a paltry sum.you become a federal judge.
in which Mr. Trudeau is a co-owner.Mr. Trudeau, a Writers Guild member was employed as a writer for Darkhorse.
In his lawsuit, Mr. Trudeau says the strike illegally included Darkhorse.the cartoonist refused to honor the strike against the company.
the proceedings are unfair.that any punishment from the guild would be unjustified.
A Department of Health and Human Services rule adopted in 1988 prohibits the use of so-called Title X funds for programs that assist a woman in obtaining an abortion, such as abortion counseling and referrals.The rule prohibits funding for activities that "encourage, promote or advocate abortion.
that the restrictions don't violate the freedom of speech of health care providers.that the limits on counseling services don't violate the rights of pregnant women.
Dallas District Judge Jack Hampton had sparked calls for a judicial inquiry with his remarks to the press last December.sentencing an 18-year-old defendant to 30 years in state prison for killing two homosexual men in a city park.
they wouldn't have been killed.they hadn't been cruising the streets picking up teenage boys.
Dallas District Judge Jack Hampton had sparked calls for a judicial inquiry with his remarks to the press last December, two weeks after sentencing an 18-year-old defendant to 30 years in state prison for killing two homosexual men in a city park.Judge Hampton didn't breach any judicial standards of fairness.
Judge Hampton didn't breach any judicial standards of fairness.he did violate the state's judicial code by commenting publicly on a pending case.
Observing that the judge "has never exhibited any bias or prejudice," Mr. Murray concluded that he "would be impartial in any case involving a homosexual or prostitute" as a victim.Mr. Murray said Judge Hampton's comments didn't discredit the judiciary or the administration of justice.
Michael R. Bromwich, a member since January 1987 of the three-lawyer trial team in the prosecution of Oliver North, became a partner in the Washington, D.C., office of the 520-lawyer firm.Mr. Bromwich, 35 has served as deputy chief and chief of the narcotics unit for the U.S. attorney's office for the Southern District of New York, based in Manhattan.
Fujitsu Ltd. 's top executive took the unusual step of publicly apologizing for his company's making bids of just one yen for several local government projects.computer rival NEC Corp. made a written apology for indulging in the same practice.
Fujitsu Ltd. 's top executive took the unusual step of publicly apologizing for his company's making bids of just one yen for several local government projects.computer rival NEC Corp. made a written apology for indulging in the same practice.
Fujitsu Ltd. 's top executive took the unusual step of publicly apologizing for his company's making bids of just one yen for several local government projects, while computer rival NEC Corp. made a written apology for indulging in the same practice.business and government leaders rebuked the computer makers, and fretted about the broader statement the companies' actions make about Japanese cutthroat pricing.
Fujitsu said it bid the equivalent of less than a U.S. penny on three separate municipal contracts during the past two years.The company disclosed that during that period it offered 10,000 yen, or about $70, for another contract.
it bid the equivalent of less than a U.S. penny on three separate municipal contracts during the past two years that during that period it offered 10,000 yen, or about $70, for another contract.Fujitsu, Japan's No. 1 computer maker, isn't alone.
We would like to apologize for having caused huge trouble," Fujitsu President Takuma Yamamoto, read from a prepared statement.he stood before a packed news conference at his company's downtown headquarters.
Japanese companies have long had a reputation for sacrificing short-term profits to make a sale that may have long-term benefits.the growing controversy comes as many practices historically accepted as normal here are coming under close ethical scrutiny.
But the growing controversy comes.many practices historically accepted as normal here -- such as politicians accepting substantial gifts from businessmen or having extramarital affairs -- are coming under close ethical scrutiny.
But the growing controversy comes as many practices historically accepted as normal here are coming under close ethical scrutiny.The fire is fueled by growing international interest in Japanese behavior.
So far there have been no public overseas complaints about the issue.in one of the auctions in question, International Business Machines Corp. made a bid substantially higher than the Fujitsu offer, according to the municipality.
that they have limited access to government procurement in Japan.Japanese companies unfairly undercut them.
The city had expected to pay about 11 million yen ($77,000).Fujitsu essentially offered to do it for free.
The "one-yen" controversy first came to a head last week when the city of Hiroshima announced that Fujitsu won a contract to design a computer system to map its waterworks.Wednesday, Fujitsu said it made a similar bid to win a library contract in Nagano prefecture two weeks earlier.
Then Wednesday, Fujitsu said it made a similar bid to win a library contract in Nagano prefecture two weeks earlier.It said that in July, it bid 10,000 yen to design a system for the Saitama prefectural library, and two years ago, it bid one yen to plan the telecommunications system for Wakayama prefecture.
that in July, it bid 10,000 yen to design a system for the Saitama prefectural library.two years ago, it bid one yen to plan the telecommunications system for Wakayama prefecture.
they were still investigating.that knowledge of more such bids could emerge.
that headquarters hadn't approved the bids.that he didn't know about most of the cases until Wednesday.
Profit may be low.at least costs should be covered.
it will acquire two construction machinery plants and a sales unit in France formerly belonging to Dresser Industries Inc. of the U.S.Last October, the company bought a wheel-loader manufacturing plant in Heidelberg, West Germany, from Dresser.
In September, the custom-chip maker said excess capacity and lagging billings would result in an estimated $2 million to $3 million net loss for the third quarter.company officials said yesterday that they decided to take a $43 million pretax charge for the period to cover a restructuring of world-wide manufacturing operations.
Over the summer months, there has been a slowing in the rate of new orders from the computer sector, our primary market.recent industry forecasts for 1990 indicate a slow environment, at least until midyear.
Over the summer months, there has been a slowing in the rate of new orders from the computer sector, our primary market "In addition, recent industry forecasts for 1990 indicate a slow environment, at least until midyear.it decided to phase out its oldest capacity and "make appropriate reductions" in operating expenses.
This is a company that has invested in capacity additions more aggressively than any other company in the industry.now the industry is growing more slowly and they are suddenly poorly positioned.
This is a company that has invested in capacity additions more aggressively than any other company in the industry and now the industry is growing more slowly.they are suddenly poorly positioned.
Yesterday's announcement was made.markets closed.
that Japanese demand has helped underpin the dollar against the yen and has kept the U.S. currency from plunging below key levels against the mark.market sentiment remains cautiously bearish on the dollar based on sluggish U.S. economic indicators.
the U.S. unit has been locked into a relatively narrow range in recent weeks.the hefty Japanese demand for dollars has been offset by the mark's strength, resulting in a stalemate.
that the strength of the U.S. bond market compared to its foreign counterparts has helped lure investors to dollar-denominated bonds, rather than mark bonds.the mark has posted significant gains against the yen as well.
Dollar-yen {trade} is the driving force in the market.I'm not convinced it will continue.
what will happen down the road, in three to six months.foreign investment starts to erode.
Douglas Madison, a corporate trader with Bank of America in Los Angeles, traced the dollar's recent solid performance against the yen to purchases of securities by Japanese insurance companies and trust banks and the sense that another wave of investment is waiting in the wings.traders in Tokyo say that the prospect of lower U.S. interest rates has spurred dollar buying by Japanese institutions.
Douglas Madison, a corporate trader with Bank of America in Los Angeles, traced the dollar's recent solid performance against the yen to purchases of securities by Japanese insurance companies and trust banks and the sense that another wave of investment is waiting in the wings.traders in Tokyo say that the prospect of lower U.S. interest rates has spurred dollar buying by Japanese institutions.
demand for the U.S. unit will continue unabated.rates in the U.S. recede.
The market again showed little interest in further evidence of a slowing U.S. economy.traders note that the market in recent weeks has taken its cues more from Wall Street than U.S. economic indicators.
the dollar was pressured slightly.a number of market participants had boosted their expectations in the past day and were looking for an index above 50.
Some dealers said the dollar was pressured slightly because a number of market participants had boosted their expectations in the past day and were looking for an index above 50, which indicates an expanding manufacturing economy.most said the index had no more than a minimal effect on trade.
The Cosby Show" may have single-handedly turned around ratings at NBC since its debut in 1984.the Huxtable family still keeps millions of viewers laughing Thursday night on the network.
The Cosby Show" may have single-handedly turned around ratings at NBC since its debut in 1984, and the Huxtable family still keeps millions of viewers laughing Thursday night on the network.some of the TV stations that bought "Cosby" reruns for record prices two years ago aren't laughing much these days.
The reruns have helped ratings at many of the 187 network affiliates and independent TV stations that air the shows.the ratings are considerably below expectations and some stations say they may not buy new episodes when their current contracts expire.
But the ratings are considerably below expectations.some stations say they may not buy new episodes when their current contracts expire.
they may not buy new episodes.their current contracts expire.
But the ratings are considerably below expectations, and some stations say they may not buy new episodes when their current contracts expire.stations are fuming because, many of them say, the show's distributor, Viacom Inc., is giving an ultimatum: Either sign new long-term commitments to buy future episodes or risk losing "Cosby" to a competitor.
Meanwhile, stations are fuming.the show's distributor, Viacom Inc., is giving an ultimatum: Either sign new long-term commitments to buy future episodes or risk losing "Cosby" to a competitor.
sign new long-term commitments to buy future episodes.risk losing "Cosby" to a competitor.
We're offering this plan now.we feel it's the right time.
Viacom denies it's using pressure tactics.says the general manager of a network affiliate in the Midwest, "I think if I tell them I need more time, they'll take `Cosby' across the street.
they'll take `Cosby' across the street.I tell them I need more time.
Viacom's move comes.the syndication market is being flooded with situation comedies that are still running on the networks.
Viacom's move is a "pre-emptive strike.the company is worried that "Cosby" ratings will continue to drop in syndication over the next few years.
Cosby" is down a full ratings point in the week of Oct. 2-8 over the same week a year ago, according to A.C. Nielsen Co.they may very well not renew "Cosby.
And executives at stations in such major markets as Washington; Providence, R.I.; Cleveland; Raleigh, N.C.; Minneapolis, and Louisville, Ky., say they may very well not renew "Cosby.Dick Lobo, the general manager of WTVJ, the NBC-owned station in Miami says the show has "been a major disappointment to us.
Cosby" gets the station's highest ratings.he's "pleased.
Neil Kuvin, the general manager of WHAS, the CBS affiliate in Louisville, says "Cosby" gets the station's highest ratings and he's "pleased.he adds, "I feel pressured, disappointed, uncomfortable and, frankly, quite angry with Viacom.
In this era of frantic competition for ad dollars, a lot of revenue-desperate magazines are getting pretty cozy with advertisers -- fawning over them in articles and offering pages of advertorial space.can a magazine survive by downright thumbing its nose at major advertisers.
as what happens.you flush your toilet.
that this magazine is not only called Garbage.it is practicing journalistic garbage.
Modifications had been made to the Souper Combo product at the time the issue was printed making it less an offender than was portrayed.it isn't one of Campbell Soup's better products in terms of recyclability.
You really need the Campbell Soups of the world to be interested in your magazine.you're going to make a run of it.
The first two issues featured ads from only a handful of big advertisers, including General Electric and Adolph Coors.the majority were from companies like Waste Management Inc. and Bumkins International, firms that don't spend much money advertising and can't be relied on to support a magazine over the long haul.
its ad in the premiere issue was a one-time purchase.it doesn't have any plans to advertise in future issues.
The first two issues featured ads from only a handful of big advertisers, including General Electric and Adolph Coors, but the majority were from companies like Waste Management Inc. and Bumkins International, firms that don't spend much money advertising and can't be relied on to support a magazine over the long haul.Ms. Poore, the magazine's editor and publisher, contends Garbage can survive, at least initially, on subscription revenues.
Individual copies of the magazine sell for $2.95.yearly subscriptions cost $21.
The first and second issues sold out on newsstands.the magazine has orders for 93,000 subscriptions.
I don't know.I don't care.
I'm not saying advertising revenue isn't important.I couldn't sleep at night" if the magazine bowed to a company because they once took out an ad.
but I couldn't sleep at night.the magazine bowed to a company because they once took out an ad.
if the magazine bowed to a company.they once took out an ad.
it might increase the price of its $70-a-share buy-back plan.pressed by Temple Holdings Ltd.
That $130 million, Mr. Sherwood said, "gives us some flexibility in case Temple raises its bid..We are able to increase our price above the $70 level if necessary.He declined to say how much Sea Containers might raise its price.
that Temple would have to "substantially increase their bid.they're going to top us.
Yesterday, Sea Containers' chief executive officer, James Sherwood, said in an interview that, under the asset-sale plan, Sea Containers would end up with a cash surplus of approximately $620 million..About $490 million of that would be allocated to the buy-back, leaving about $130 million, he said..That $130 million, Mr. Sherwood said, "gives us some flexibility in case Temple raises its bid..We are able to increase our price above the $70 level if necessary." He declined to say, however, how much Sea Containers might raise its price..Mr. Sherwood speculated that the leeway that Sea Containers has means that Temple would have to "substantially increase their bid if they're going to top us.Temple harshly criticized Sea Containers' plan yesterday, characterizing it as a "highly conditional device designed to entrench management, confuse shareholders and prevent them from accepting our superior cash offer.
that Sea Containers' plan would result in shareholders receiving only $36 to $45 a share in cash.all the asset sales materialize.
as a "highly conditional device designed to entrench management, confuse shareholders and prevent them from accepting our superior cash offer that Sea Containers is still mired in legal problems in Bermuda.Sea Containers' plan raises "numerous legal, regulatory, financial and fairness issues.
The department proposed requiring stronger roofs for light trucks and minivans, beginning with 1992 models.It issued a final rule requiring auto makers to equip light trucks and minivans with lap-shoulder belts for rear seats beginning in the 1992 model year.
the rule changes weren't surprising.Bush administration officials have long said they planned to impose car safety standards on light trucks and vans.
that many vehicles classed as commercial light trucks actually carry more people than cargo.and should have the same safety features as cars.
Safety advocates, including some members of Congress, have been urging the department for years to extend car-safety requirements to light trucks and vans, which now account for almost one-third of all vehicle sales in the U.S They didn't have much luck during the Reagan administration.now, there seems to be a fairly systematic effort to address the problem.
We could prevent many of these fatalities with minimum roof-crush standards.Sen. Danforth and others want the department to require additional safety equipment in light trucks and minivans, including air bags or automatic seat belts in front seats and improved side-crash protection.
Ford began installing the rear-seat belts in trucks with its F-series Crew Cab pickups in the 1989 model year.The new Explorer sport-utility vehicle, set for introduction next spring, will have the rear-seat belts.
it has held talks with potential merger partners outside New England.that nothing is imminent and it hasn't received any formal offers.
that nothing is imminent.it hasn't received any formal offers.
The discussions were disclosed.the bank holding company said that it has dropped its longstanding opposition to full interstate banking bills in Connecticut and in Massachusetts.
We have considered what our options are.I'm sure others have.
We have considered what our options are.we've had conversations with people who in the future might prove to be interesting partners.
about who the potential partners were.when the talks were held.
Mr. Driscoll didn't elaborate about who the potential partners were or when the talks were held.A bank spokeswoman declined to comment on any merger-related matters, but said the company decided to drop its opposition to the interstate banking legislation because "prevailing sentiment is in favor of passage.
the company decided to drop its opposition to the interstate banking legislation.prevailing sentiment is in favor of passage.
GOODY PRODUCTS Inc. cut its quarterly dividend to five cents a share from 11.5 cents a share.The company adopted an anti-takeover plan.
few wine shops and restaurants around the country balked.Warren Winiarski, proprietor of Stag's Leap Wine Cellars in Napa Valley, announced a $75 price tag for his 1985 Cask 23 Cabernet this fall.
This is the peak of my wine-making experience," Mr. Winiarski declared.he introduced the wine at a dinner in New York.
This is the peak of my wine-making experience.I wanted to single it out as such.
It is in my estimation the best wine Stag's Leap has produced.with fewer than 700 cases available, it is sure to sell quickly.
The price is a new high for California Cabernet Sauvignon.it is not the highest.
For years, this group included a stable of classics -- Bordeaux first growths (Lafite-Rothschild, Latour, Haut-Brion, Petrus), Grand Cru Burgundies (Romanee-Conti and La Tache) deluxe Champagnes (Dom Perignon or Roederer Cristal), rarefied sweet wines (Chateau Yquem or Trockenbeerenauslesen Rieslings from Germany, and Biondi-Santi Brunello Riserva from Tuscany).In the last year or so this exclusive club has taken in a host of flashy new members.
The classics have zoomed in price to meet the competition.it almost seems that there's a race on to come up with the priciest single bottle, among current releases from every major wine region on the globe.
Bordeaux's first growths from 1985 and 1986 are $60 to $80 each (except for the smallest in terms of production, Chateau Petrus, which costs around $250!).These prices seem rather modest in light of other French wines from current vintages.
Roederer Cristal at $90 a bottle sells out around the country.Taittinger's Comtes de Champagne Blanc de Blancs is encroaching upon that level.
The great reds of the Rhone Valley have soared in price as well.E. Guigal's 1982 Cote Rotie La Landonne is $120.
Bordeaux's first growths from 1985 and 1986 are $60 to $80 each (except for the smallest in terms of production, Chateau Petrus, which costs around $250!)..These prices seem rather modest, however, in light of other French wines from current vintages..Chateau Yquem, the leading Sauternes, now goes for well over $100 a bottle for a lighter vintage like 1984; the spectacularly rich 1983 runs $179..In Champagne, some of the prestige cuvees are inching toward $100 a bottle..The first Champagne to crack that price barrier was the 1979 Salon de Mesnil Blanc de Blancs..The '82 Salon is $115..Roederer Cristal at $90 a bottle sells out around the country and Taittinger's Comtes de Champagne Blanc de Blancs is encroaching upon that level..The great reds of the Rhone Valley have soared in price as well..E. Guigal's 1982 Cote Rotie La Landonne, for example, is $120.None of France's wine regions can steal a march on Burgundy.
We're seeing it.older vintages are growing more scarce.
Owner Al Brownstein originally planned to sell it for $60 a bottle.when a retailer in Southern California asked, "Is that wholesale or retail?" he re-thought the matter.
but he re-thought the matter.a retailer in Southern California asked, "Is that wholesale or retail.
yes, it's high.I'll take it.
The wine was shipped in six-bottle cases instead of the usual 12.even at that it was spread thin.
We thought it was awfully expensive.there are people out there with very different opinions of value.
We got our two six-packs.they're gone.
steeper prices have come about.producers don't like to see a hit wine dramatically increase in price later on.
a wine that wins high ratings from the critics will eventually move.there is consumer resistance at first.
There may be sticker-shock reaction initially.as the wine is talked about and starts to sell, they eventually get excited and decide it's worth the astronomical price to add it to their collection.
but they eventually get excited and decide it's worth the astronomical price to add it to their collection.the wine is talked about and starts to sell.
Producers have seen this market opening up.they're now creating wines that appeal to these people.
That explains why the number of these wines is expanding so rapidly.consumers who buy at this level are also more knowledgeable than they were a few years ago.
It's just sort of a one-upsmanship thing with some people.But consumers who buy at this level are more knowledgeable than they were a few years ago.
They won't buy.the quality is not there.
if the quality is not there.if they feel the wine is overpriced and they can get something equally good for less.
They won't buy.they feel the wine is overpriced and they can get something equally good for less.
the wine is overpriced.they can get something equally good for less.
Mr. Martin has increased prices on some wines (like Grgich Hills Chardonnay, now $32) just to slow down movement.he is beginning to see some resistance to high-priced red Burgundies and Cabernets and Chardonnays in the $30 to $40 range.
with what sells.what doesn't.
Image has, of course, a great deal to do with what sells and what doesn't.it can't be forced.
Wine merchants can't keep Roederer Cristal in stock.they have to push Salon le Mesnil.
the 1982 Salon is a beautiful wine.people have their own ideas about value.
that a lot of the expensive wines aren't always walking out the door.In every major market in the U.S. you can buy '86 La Tache or Richebourg, virtually all of the first growth Bordeaux (except Petrus), as well as Opus One and Dominus from California and, at the moment, the Stag's Leap 1985 Cask 23.
With the biggest wine-buying period of the year looming.the holidays approach.
what's hot.what's not.
Signs of a slowing economy are increasing pressure on the Federal Reserve to cut short-term interest rates.it isn't clear whether the central bank will do so.
economic growth has been sluggish in recent weeks.upward pressures on prices have moderated.
economic growth has been sluggish in recent weeks.upward pressures on prices have moderated.
I do see some slowing in the fourth quarter.you look at the third quarter as posting roughly 2.5% growth.
The economy is clearly slowing," says Robert Black, president of the Richmond Federal Reserve Bank.."If you look at the third quarter as posting roughly 2.5% growth, I do see some slowing in the fourth quarter," agrees Kansas City Fed President Roger Guffey.both Mr. Guffey and Mr. Black say the slowdown so far is no cause for concern.
Bush administration officials are looking to the Fed to bring down rates.financial markets seem to be expecting easier credit as well.
The report from the Fed found that manufacturing, in particular, has been weak in recent weeks.The Philadelphia Fed reported that manufacturing activity "continues to decline" for the fourth month in a row.
The Philadelphia Fed, for instance, reported that manufacturing activity "continues to decline" for the fourth month in a row.in the Chicago district, the report said, "a manufacturer of capital goods noted slower orders for some types, including defense equipment, petroleum equipment, food packaging machinery and material handling equipment.
And in the Chicago district a manufacturer of capital goods noted slower orders for some types, including defense equipment, petroleum equipment, food packaging machinery and material handling equipment.Retail sales were reported slow in most districts, particularly "for discretionary, big-ticket items such as furniture, home appliances and consumer electronics.
Retail sales also were reported slow in most districts, particularly "for discretionary, big-ticket items such as furniture, home appliances and consumer electronics.construction also was described as slow in most areas.
Retail sales also were reported slow in most districts, particularly "for discretionary, big-ticket items such as furniture, home appliances and consumer electronics.And construction was described as slow in most areas.
Despite the economic slowdown, there are few clear signs that growth is coming to a halt.Fed officials may be divided over whether to ease credit.
Several Fed governors in Washington have been pushing for easier credit.many of the regional Fed presidents have been resisting such a move.
There is always a chance of recession.if you ask me to put a percentage on it, I would think it's well below a 50% chance.
but I would think it's well below a 50% chance.you ask me to put a percentage on it.
its planned rights offering to raise about $9 million was declared effective.the company will begin mailing materials to shareholders at the end of this week.
445 workers at a plant in Shelby, Ohio, began a strike.the United Steelworkers Local 3057 rejected a new contract on Tuesday.
the auctions will be postponed.Congress acts quickly to lift the federal debt ceiling.
the federal government won't have the cash to pay off $13.8 billion in Treasury bills that mature on Thursday.it can raise money in financial markets.
Without congressional action, the Treasury can't sell any new securities -- even savings bonds.despite partisan bickering over the debt ceiling, which has become entangled in the fight over cutting capital-gains taxes, Congress is almost certain to act in time to avoid default.
to be auctioned Tuesday.to mature Nov. 15, 1992.
to be auctioned Wednesday.to mature Nov. 15, 1999.
to be auctioned Thursday.to mature Aug. 15, 2019.
it plans to sell $30 billion in notes and bonds next week, but said the auctions will be postponed unless Congress acts quickly to lift the federal debt ceiling.it plans to sell $10 billion in 36-day cash management bills on Thursday.
None of the securities will be eligible for when-issued trading.Congress approves an increase in the debt ceiling.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average finished less than a point higher to close at 2645.90 in moderate trading.advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange were tidily ahead of declining stocks, 847 to 644.
The industrial average jumped more than 41 points Tuesday.speculators rushed to buy shares of potential takeover targets.
The industrial average jumped more than 41 points Tuesday.speculators rushed to buy shares of potential takeover targets.
The industrial average jumped more than 41 points Tuesday as speculators rushed to buy shares of potential takeover targets.with the end of the year in sight, money managers are eager to take profits and cut their risks of losing what for many have been exceptionally good returns in.
and said it would study other alternatives.it hasn't yet made any proposals to shareholders.
it hasn't eliminated any alternatives.that "discussions are being held with interested parties, and work is also continuing on other various transactions.
that "discussions are being held with interested parties.work is also continuing on other various transactions.
it hasn't eliminated any alternatives and that "discussions are being held with interested parties.and work is continuing on other various transactions.
that Mr. Simmons, an aggressive and persistent investor, won't leave Georgia Gulf alone.some kind of transaction is completed.
Mr. Simmons owns 88% of Valhi Inc.which owns two-thirds of NL.
that $55 a share is "the most you can pay for Georgia Gulf.it becomes a bad acquisition.
Georgia Gulf stock rose $1.75 a share yesterday to close at $51.25 a share.NL shares closed unchanged at $22.75 and Valhi rose 62.5 cents to $15, all in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Georgia Gulf stock rose $1.75 a share yesterday to close at $51.25 a share.NL shares closed unchanged at $22.75 and Valhi rose 62.5 cents to $15, all in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
Georgia Gulf stock rose $1.75 a share yesterday to close at $51.25 a share, while NL shares closed unchanged at $22.75.Valhi rose 62.5 cents to $15, all in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
NL and Mr. Simmons cut the price they were proposing for Georgia Gulf.they initially planned a transaction that included about $250 million in equity and a substantial amount of high-yield subordinated debt.
because they initially planned a transaction that included about $250 million in equity and a substantial amount of high-yield subordinated debt.the junk-bond market has collapsed in recent weeks, lessening the likelihood that such a transaction would succeed.
Now the group plans to put in "several hundred million" dollars in equity and finance the remainder with bank debt.that the group reduced its offer because it wasn't allowed to see Georgia Gulf's confidential financial information without agreeing that it wouldn't make an offer unless it had Georgia Gulf's consent.
that the group reduced its offer.it wasn't allowed to see Georgia Gulf's confidential financial information without agreeing that it wouldn't make an offer unless it had Georgia Gulf's consent.
that it wouldn't make an offer.it had Georgia Gulf's consent.
how NL and Mr. Simmons would respond.Georgia Gulf spurns them again.
Mr. Martin said they haven't yet decided what their next move would be.he didn't rule out the possibility of a consent solicitation aimed at replacing Georgia Gulf's board.
the group apparently believes the company's management is interested in some kind of transaction.Georgia Gulf hasn't been eager to negotiate with Mr. Simmons and NL, a specialty chemicals concern.
and would stand to gain millions of dollars.the company were sold.
Dr. Kligman patented the medicine.employed by the University.
Dr. Kligman patented the medicine while employed by the University.but licensed the Retin-A to a division of Johnson & Johnson.
Not that Washington and Tokyo disagree on the Japanese acquisitions.each has come out in favor of unfettered investment in the U.S.
The heated talk stirred up by recent Japanese investments in the U.S. is focusing attention on the differences in investment climate.it's only one of many subjects to be covered in the bilateral talks.
We believe that it is vitally important for those Japanese business interests {in the U.S.} to be more aware of the emotions and concerns of the American people," said the spokesman, Taizo Watanabe.At the same time he chastised the media for paying such close attention to Japanese investment when other foreign countries, notably Britain, are acquiring more American assets.
for paying such close attention to Japanese investment.other foreign countries, notably Britain, are acquiring more American assets.
the fires of discontent had been well stoked by the highly publicized experience in Japan of one U.S. investor, T. Boone Pickens Jr.those moves added fuel.
The Texas oilman has acquired a 26.2% stake valued at more than $1.2 billion in an automotive-lighting company, Koito Manufacturing Co.he has failed to gain any influence at the company.
a number of other important economic issues will be on the table at next week's talks.the question of investors' access to the U.S. and Japanese markets may get a disproportionate share of the public's attention.
We feel very strongly that we really need action across the full range of issues we've identified.we need it by next spring.
that the talks will be most successful.negotiators start by focusing on the areas that can be most easily changed.
Both sides have agreed that the talks will be most successful if negotiators start by focusing on the areas that can be most easily changed.they haven't clarified what those might be.
That process of sorting out specifics is likely to take time.at the first meeting the two sides couldn't even agree on basic data used in price discussions.
Japan's big trading companies are rapidly increasing their stake in America's smaller business.worry grows about big Japanese investments in the U.S.
For Japan, the controversial trend improves access to American markets and technology.for small American companies, it also provides a growing source of capital and even marketing help.
For Japan, the controversial trend improves access to American markets and technology.But for small American companies, it provides a growing source of capital and even marketing help.
In a joint-venture deal, Mitsui guided Candela through Tokyo's bureaucratic maze.The deal gave Mitsui access to a high-tech medical product.
They view this as a growth area.they went about it with a systematic approach.
They view this as a growth area so they went about it with a systematic approach.for many Japanese trading companies, the favorite U.S. small business is one whose research and development can be milked for future Japanese use.
Japanese companies have financed small and medium-sized U.S. firms for years.in recent months, the pace has taken off.
In the first half of 1989 alone, Japanese corporations invested $214 million in minority positions in U.S. companies, a 61% rise from the figure for all of 1987.of course, some of the Japanese investments involved outright purchase of small U.S. firms.
they add to Japanese penetration of the U.S. market.the small deals are far less conspicuous.
they feed American anxieties in this area, too.the deals also improve Japanese access to American technology and market knowledge.
they feed American anxieties in this area, too.the deals also improve Japanese access to American technology and market knowledge.
While the small deals are far less conspicuous, they add to Japanese penetration of the U.S. market.As the deals improve Japanese access to American technology and market knowledge, they feed American anxieties in this area, too.
Even a low-tech product like plate glass can catch a trading company's fancy.there's a strategic fit.
People are queuing at the door to take his product.he doesn't have the working capital to make the thing.
but he doesn't have the working capital to make the thing.commercial banks are very unsympathetic.
Mitsui has 75 U.S. subsidiaries in which it holds 35% interest or more.the trading company hopes to double the number of its U.S. affiliates in 1990.
For 10 years, Genie Driskill went to her neighborhood bank.it was convenient.
For 10 years, Genie Driskill went to her neighborhood bank because it was convenient..A high-balance customer that banks pine for, she didn't give much thought to the rates she was receiving, nor to the fees she was paying.in August, First Atlanta National Bank introduced its Crown Account, a package designed to lure customers such as Ms. Driskill.
For nearly a decade, banks have competed for customers primarily with the interest rates they pay on their deposits and charge on their loans.many banks are turning away from strict price competition.
But many banks are turning away from strict price competition.they are trying to build customer loyalty by bundling their services into packages and targeting them to small segments of the population.
You're dead in the water.you aren't segmenting the market.
Such individuals, many with young children, are in their prime borrowing years.having borrowed from the bank, they may continue to use it for other services in later years.
An active 55-year-old in Boca Raton may care more about Senior Olympic games.a 75-year-old in Panama City may care more about a seminar on health.
An active 55-year-old in Boca Raton may care more about Senior Olympic games.a 75-year-old in Panama City may care more about a seminar on health.
The concept begot a slew of copycats.the banks stopped promoting the packages.
the emphasis switched to finding ways to cut costs.banks' earnings were squeezed in the mid-1970s.
Many banks, particularly smaller ones, were slow to computerize and couldn't target market niches that would have made the programs more profitable.now computers are enabling more banks to analyze their customers by age, income and geography.
The competition has grown more intense.bigger banks such as Norwest Corp. of Minneapolis and Chemical Banking Corp. of New York extend their market-share battles into small towns across the nation.
Today, a banker is worrying about local, regional and money-center {banks}, as well as thrifts and credit unions.people who weren't even thinking about targeting 10 years ago are scrambling to define their customer base.
That can pay off down the road.customers, especially the younger ones, change from borrowers to savers/investors.
Packaging has some drawbacks.bankers expect packaging to flourish.
Still, bankers expect packaging to flourish.more customers are demanding that financial services be tailored to their needs.
Americans today spend $15,000 like pocket change.for an ailing savings-and-loan association -- teetering on insolvency -- it can lead to safety from imminent demise and to a future full of promise.
Think about the good you can do for just $15,000 a month, about the cost of a mid-size Chevrolet or two semesters at a state university.send your support to a savings institution that has taken a bad rap in the press and on its bottom line.
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange said it plans to institute an additional "circuit breaker" aimed at stemming market slides.John Phelan told a closed House subcommittee meeting in Washington that he would support Securities and Exchange Commission halts of program trading during market emergencies.
Separately, John Phelan told a closed House subcommittee meeting in Washington that he would support Securities and Exchange Commission halts of program trading during market emergencies.the New York Stock Exchange chairman said he doesn't support reinstating a "collar" on program trading.
a new one-hour price limit would take effect in its Standard & Poor's 500 stock-index futures pit.S&P 500 futures fell 20 index points -- the equivalent of about a 150-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
a new one-hour price limit would take effect in its Standard & Poor's 500 stock-index futures pit.S&P 500 futures fell 20 index points -- the equivalent of about a 150-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
it would remain in effect until the normal close of trading at 3:15 p.m.the 20-point limit is triggered after 1:30 p.m. Chicago time.
when the Dow Jones industrials plunged 190 points.stock-index futures prices skidded as well.
that the 12-point limit appeared to lessen the selling panic Oct. 13.when the contract reopened, the subsequent flood of sell orders that quickly knocked the contract down to the 30-point limit indicated that the intermediate limit of 20 points was needed to help keep stock and stock-index futures prices synchronized.
But the subsequent flood of sell orders that quickly knocked the contract down to the 30-point limit indicated that the intermediate limit of 20 points was needed to help keep stock and stock-index futures prices synchronized.the contract reopened.
that its existing 30-minute, 12-point limit on S&P 500 stock-index futures trading (equal to about 100 points on the Dow Jones industrials), which was triggered Oct. 13, will remain.that the 30-point circuit breaker, which currently provides only a one-hour respite during market sell-offs, will become the maximum one-day limit for the S&P 500 stock-index futures contract.
The limit lapses under current exchange rules.contracts trade above the limit price during the opening 10 minutes of trading.
which banned program trades through the Big Board's computer.the Dow Jones Industrial Average moved 50 points.
The program-trading issue is heating up on Capitol Hill as it is on Wall Street.several legislators want to grant the SEC the power to shut off the programs when trading becomes too volatile.
to shut off the programs.trading becomes too volatile.
SEC Chairman Richard Breeden has said he would be willing to consider circuit breakers that have preset trigger points.he doesn't want discretionary power to stop programs.
Markey said we could have done this in public.so little sensitive information was disclosed.
Markey said we could have done this in public" because so little sensitive information was disclosed.Mr. Phelan responded that he would have been happy just writing a report to the panel.
That response annoyed Rep. Markey.the congressman snapped back that there had been enough studies of the issue and that it was time for action on the matter.
that there had been enough studies of the issue.that it was time for action on the matter.
In the tower, five men and women pull rhythmically on ropes attached to the same five bells that first sounded here in 1614.there is also a discordant, modern note in Aslacton, though it can't be heard by the church-goers enjoying the peal of bells this cool autumn evening.
ASLACTON, England -- Of all scenes that evoke rural England, this is one of the loveliest: An ancient stone church stands amid the fields, the sound of bells cascading from its tower, calling the faithful to evensong..The parishioners of St. Michael and All Angels stop to chat at the church door, as members here always have..In the tower, five men and women pull rhythmically on ropes attached to the same five bells that first sounded here in 1614.But there is a discordant, modern note in Aslacton.
But there is also a discordant, modern note in Aslacton.it can't be heard by the church-goers enjoying the peal of bells this cool autumn evening.
We've tried to train the youngsters.they have their discos and their dances, and they just drift away.
but they have their discos and their dances.they just drift away.
According to a nationwide survey taken a year ago, nearly a third of England's church bells are no longer rung on Sundays.there is no one to ring them.
Proper English bells are started off in "rounds," from the highest-pitched bell to the lowest -- a simple descending scale using, in larger churches, as many as 12 bells.at a signal, the ringers begin varying the order in which the bells sound without altering the steady rhythm of the striking.
No one speaks.the snaking of the ropes seems to make as much sound as the bells themselves, muffled by the ceiling.
to watch the other ropes.and time their pulls.
Skilled ringers use their wrists to advance or retard the next swing.one bell can swap places with another in the following change.
In a well-known detective-story involving church bells, English novelist Dorothy L. Sayers described ringing as a "passion {that} finds its satisfaction in mathematical completeness and mechanical perfection." Ringers, she added, are "filled with the solemn intoxication that comes of intricate ritual faultlessly performed."."Ringing does become a bit of an obsession," admits Stephanie Pattenden, master of the band at St. Mary Abbot and one of England's best female ringers.It is a passion that usually stays in the tower.
ringers often skip off to the local pub, leaving worship for others below.their changes are completed.
ringers often skip off to the local pub, leaving worship for others below.their changes are completed.
ringers often skip off to the local pub, leaving worship for others below.they have worked up a sweat.
An entirely new band rings today at Great Torrington, several of whom are members of the congregation.there still aren't enough ringers to ring more than six of the eight bells.
At St. Mary's Church in Ilminster, Somerset, the bells have fallen silent following a dust-up over church attendance..The vicar, W.D. Jones, refuses to talk about it, saying it would "reopen the wound.C.J.B. Marshall, vicar of a nearby church, feels the fault is in the stairs from the bell tower that are located next to the altar.
making a very obvious exit.the congregation is at prayer.
Vicar Marshall admits to mixed feelings about this issue.he is both a vicar and an active bell-ringer himself.
The Central Council of Church Bell Ringers, a sort of parliament of ringing groups, aims to improve relations with vicars.Mr. Baldwin is attacking the greater problem: lack of ringers.
that of the 100,000 trained bellringers in England today, only 40,000 of them still ring.ringers don't always live where the bells need to be rung -- like in small, rural parishes and inner-city churches.
Mr. Baldwin is also attacking the greater problem: lack of ringers.the council's program to attract and train ringers is only partly successful.
Right now, we're lucky.after five years we keep one new ringer out of 10.
One bright sign is that a growing number of women have entered the once male-dominated field; more than a third of the ringers today are women.They aren't accepted everywhere.
that's particularly galling to women.the group is the sole source of ringers for Britain's most prestigious churches, St. Paul's Cathedral and Westminster Abbey.
This being Britain, no woman has filed an equal-opportunity suit.the extent of the problem surfaced this summer in a series of letters to "The Ringing World," a weekly newspaper for ringers.
Investors unsettled by the stock market's gyrations can take some comfort in the predictable arrival of quarterly dividend checks.don't breathe too easy: Those dividend increases may signal trouble ahead for stock prices, some analysts warn.
that attract males.and kill them after mating.
that companies raise their payouts most robustly.the economy and corporate profits have been growing for some time.
Invariably, those strong periods in the economy give way to recessionary environments.recessionary environments aren't hospitable to the stock market.
that companies raise their payouts most robustly only after the economy and corporate profits have been growing for some time. "Invariably, those strong periods in the economy give way to recessionary environments And recessionary environments aren't hospitable to the stock market.that payouts have sometimes risen most sharply when prices were already on their way down from cyclical peaks.
that payouts have sometimes risen most sharply.prices were already on their way down from cyclical peaks.
that payouts have sometimes risen most sharply when prices were already on their way down from cyclical peaks.In 1976 dividends on the stocks in Standard & Poor's 500-stock index soared 10%, following much slower growth the year before.
That pattern hasn't always held.recent strong growth in dividends makes some market watchers anxious.
Payouts on the S&P 500 stocks rose 10% in 1988, according to Standard & Poor's Corp.Wall Street estimates for 1989 growth are generally between 9% and 14%.
Many people believe the growth in dividends will slow next year.a minority see double-digit gains continuing.
but recent strong growth in dividends makes some market watchers anxious.many market watchers say recent dividend trends raise another warning flag: While dividends have risen smartly, their expansion hasn't kept pace with even stronger advances in stock prices.
but recent strong growth in dividends makes some market watchers anxious.many market watchers say recent dividend trends raise another warning flag: While dividends have risen smartly, their expansion hasn't kept pace with even stronger advances in stock prices.
their expansion hasn't kept pace with even stronger advances in stock prices.dividends have risen smartly.
their expansion hasn't kept pace with even stronger advances in stock prices.the market's dividend yield -- dividends as a percentage of price -- has slid to a level that is fairly low and unenticing by historical standards.
investors should run for the exits.a sustained market rebound pushes the yield below 3%.
A drop below that 3% benchmark "has always been a strong warning sign that stocks are fully valued.the market has always tanked.
There have been only seven other times -- in 1929, 1933, 1961, 1965, 1968, 1971 and 1972 -- when the yield on the S&P 500 dropped below 3% for at least two consecutive months.in each case a sharp drop in stock prices began within a year.
In fact, "the market has always tanked..Always..There's never been an exception.the current 3.3% reading isn't as troublesome as it might have been in years past.
It's not a very meaningful indicator currently.corporations are not behaving in a traditional manner.
because corporations are not behaving in a traditional manner.businesses are paying out a smaller percentage of their profits and cash flow in the form of dividends than they have historically.
In particular businesses are paying out a smaller percentage of their profits and cash flow in the form of dividends than they have historically.while stock prices may look fairly high relative to dividends, they are not excessive relative to the underlying corporate strength.
they are not excessive relative to the underlying corporate strength.stock prices may look fairly high relative to dividends.
Common wisdom suggests a single-digit rate of growth.PaineWebber Inc. is forecasting growth in S&P 500 dividends of just under 5% in 1990, down from an estimated 11% this year.
Common wisdom suggests a single-digit rate of growth, reflecting a weakening in the economy and corporate profits.The minority argument is that businesses have the financial wherewithal this time around to declare sharply higher dividends even if their earnings weaken.
Common wisdom suggests a single-digit rate of growth, reflecting a weakening in the economy and corporate profits.The minority argument is that businesses have the financial wherewithal this time around to declare sharply higher dividends even if their earnings weaken.
that businesses have the financial wherewithal this time around to declare sharply higher dividends.their earnings weaken.
a further slippage in the number of dividend increases could be a harbinger of slower dividend growth next year.the S&P tally doesn't measure the magnitude of dividend changes.
on how much of a boost the overall stock market would get.dividend growth continues at double-digit levels.
vs. a "cash rate of return" of perhaps 7% or 8%.dividend growth is weak.
Mr. Einhorn of Goldman Sachs estimates the stock market will deliver a 12% to 15% total return from appreciation and dividends over the next 12 months -- vs. a "cash rate of return" of perhaps 7% or 8% if dividend growth is weak.Mr. Boesel of T. Rowe Price, who also expects 12% growth in dividends next year, doesn't think it will help the overall market all that much.
Mr. Einhorn of Goldman Sachs estimates the stock market will deliver a 12% to 15% total return from appreciation and dividends over the next 12 months -- vs. a "cash rate of return" of perhaps 7% or 8% if dividend growth is weak.who expects 12% growth in dividends next year.
Having the dividend increases is a supportive element in the market outlook.it's a main consideration.
by turning down Alexander Graham Bell's offer to it of his invention.it supposedly felt that voice communication would never replace the telegraph.
Such is hardly the case.Western Union wanted to get into the telephone business.
It acquired Thomas Edison's microphone patent.and immediately sued the Bell Co.
Western Union dropped the lawsuit and agreed never to enter the telephone business -- the basis for the company's current plight.Bell established that the Berliner patent caveat was registered 10 days before Edison's application.
customers weren't willing to commit to an expensive NBI hardware systems because of the company's financial troubles.the company doesn't have the capital needed to build the business over the next year or two.
We had to do something structurally and radically different.NBI will focus on servicing its installed base of systems, trying to provide maintenance for other manufacturers and expanding its software business.
It was Richard Nixon's first visit to China in 1972 that set in motion the historic rapprochement between Beijing and Washington.the former U.S. president's sixth visit to China, during which he spoke at length with Chinese leaders, was nowhere near as successful at easing strains that have recently afflicted the Sino-U.S. relationship.
Mr. Nixon, the most prominent American to come to China since Beijing's bloody suppression of pro-democracy demonstrators in June, harped on international outrage over the massacre.The Chinese took aim at American "interference" in China's domestic affairs.
Mr. Nixon, the most prominent American to come to China since Beijing's bloody suppression of pro-democracy demonstrators in June, harped on international outrage over the massacre.The Chinese took aim at American "interference" in China's domestic affairs.
for reciting platitudes about eternal friendship.Mr. Nixon reminded his host, Chinese President Yang Shangkun, that Americans haven't forgiven China's leaders for the military assault of June 3-4 that killed hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of demonstrators.
The events of April through June damaged the respect and confidence.which most Americans had for the leaders of China.
China was the real victim.it is unjust to reprove China for it.
when Chinese dissident Fang Lizhi and his wife, Li Shuxian, took refuge in the U.S. Embassy in Beijing.Mr. Bush imposed a series of anti-China sanctions, including suspension of most high-level talks.
Mr. Nixon is traveling in China as a private citizen.he has made clear that he is an unofficial envoy for the Bush administration.
Mr. Nixon met Mr. Bush and his national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft.coming to China on Saturday.
Mr. Nixon met Mr. Bush and his national security adviser, Brent Scowcroft, before coming to China on Saturday.he plans to brief the president at the end of the week.
According to an American member of the Nixon party, the former president raised a number of controversial issues in his 20 hours of talks with top-level Chinese officials.Mr. Nixon proposed that China restore its participation in the Fulbright Program, a U.S. government-funded academic exchange.
Ideas are going over borders.there's no SDI ideological weapon that can shoot them down.
In his talks, the former president urged China's leaders to acknowledge that their nation is part of the world community and welcome the infusion of outside contacts and ideas.There are no signs of China's yielding on key issues.
There are no signs, however, of China's yielding on key issues.in one minor matter, Mr. Nixon appears to have gained a concession.
Sure enough the machine-gun-toting guards were gone -- for the first time in five months.he arrived at the embassy two days later.
Sure enough, when he arrived at the embassy two days later, the machine-gun-toting guards were gone -- for the first time in five months.A few blocks away, at the U.S. ambassador's residence, the guards encircling the compound had discarded their Uzi-model arms for the first time since early June.
A few blocks away, at the U.S. ambassador's residence, the guards encircling the compound also had discarded their Uzi-model arms for the first time since early June.the guards there retained their pistols, and a large contingent of plainclothes police remained nearby in unmarked cars.
But the guards there retained their pistols.a large contingent of plainclothes police remained nearby in unmarked cars.
But the guards there retained their pistols, and a large contingent of plainclothes police remained nearby in unmarked cars.police and soldiers continue to harass Americans.
They are barking up the wrong tree.it is basically their fault they can't attract new employees.
Money is not everything.it is necessary.
Money is not everything, but it is necessary.business is not volunteer work.
I visited a lot of major Japanese manufacturers.I never felt I would want to be employed by any of them.
Many of them recently have been spending a lot of money on public relations and advertising to improve their images.they should realize that the most important thing is real change, not changing people's perceptions.
they could do at least three things to improve the situation: raise salaries higher than those of financial institutions; improve working conditions (better offices and more vacations, for example); accept and hire more labor from outside Japan.the Japanese companies are seriously considering their survival.
Among liberals, 60% have positive views of her.50% approve of the president's job performance.
only 15% have a negative view of his spouse.a quarter of black voters disapprove of Mr. Bush's handling of his job.
that three-quarters of blacks approve of Mr. Bush's job performance.85% of blacks approve of Mrs. Bush.
the positive view is even more newsworthy.the assumption is that it is surprising that so few blacks find Mr. and Mrs. Bush distasteful.
Two firms were expelled from the NASD, three were suspended or barred.nine were fined.
First Securities Group of California and a principal of the firm, Louis Fernando Vargas of Marina del Rey, Calif., were jointly fined $15,000 and expelled for alleged violations of reporting requirements on securities sales.Mr. Vargas was barred from association with any NASD member.
J.L. Henry & Co., Miami, and a principal of the firm, Henry I. Otero of Miami, were jointly fined $30,000 and expelled, for alleged improper use of a customer's funds, among other things.Mr. Otero was barred from association with any NASD member.
J.L. Henry hasn't any Miami telephone listing.Mr. Otero, who apparently has an unpublished number couldn't be reached.
Biscayne hasn't any telephone listing.Mr. Rosenblum, who apparently has an unpublished phone number couldn't be reached.
Triton and Mr. Chase consented to findings of violations in connection with limited-partnership sales.neither admitting nor denying wrongdoing.
First Commonwealth Securities Corp., of New Orleans, and its president, Kenneth J. Canepa, also of New Orleans, consented to a $10,000 fine.Mr. Canepa received a two-week suspension "in a principal capacity.
We got what amounted to a parking ticket.by complaining about it, we ended up with a sizable fine and suspension.
he "screwed up.he didn't realize he was breaking securities laws.
Insurance agents have been forced by their companies into becoming registered reps.they are not providing compliance and security-type training so that we can avoid stupid mistakes.
but they are not providing compliance and security-type training.we can avoid stupid mistakes.
that they will simply emigrate to foreign stock markets.they are blocked in the U.S.
Program traders are fond of predicting that if they are blocked in the U.S., they will simply emigrate to foreign stock markets.in London and Tokyo, where computer-driven trading now plays a small but growing role, traders say a number of hurdles loom.
U.S. stock-index futures aren't even traded in Japan now.because of the time difference, the Japanese and the U.S. markets' trading hours don't overlap.
About 11.6% of all program trading by New York Stock Exchange firms in September took place in foreign markets, according to Big Board data.it is difficult to imagine Japan racing to introduce Chicago-style stock-index futures.
Program trading has taken off in Japan since last year's introduction of home-market stock-index futures trading on the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges.regulators are wary.
Tokyo's leading program traders are the big U.S. securities houses.the Japanese are playing catch-up.
But regulators are wary.The British are scrutinizing program trades.
to unwind positions but at prices pegged to the previous session's Big Board close.U.S. trading begins.
In addition to the extra privacy of these trades, the transactions can often be less expensive to execute.the parties don't have to pay a floor brokerage fee or a specialist's fee.
London has several attractions.Much less {index-arbitrage activity} is done over here than in the U.S.
A Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100-share index option contract is traded on the London Stock Exchange's Traded Options Market.an FT-SE futures contract is traded on the London International Financial Futures Exchange.
The average number of FT-SE option contracts traded on the London exchange has surged nearly tenfold since the contract's launch in 1984..This year, the average of daily contracts traded totaled 9,118, up from 4,645 a year earlier and from 917 in 1984.a survey early this summer indicated that the volume of index-options trading was only 15% of the size of the underlying equity market, exchange officials said.
Advocates said the 90-cent-an-hour rise, to $4.25 an hour by April 1991, is too small for the working poor.opponents argued that the increase will still hurt small business and cost many thousands of jobs.
the 90-cent-an-hour rise, to $4.25 an hour by April 1991, is too small for the working poor.that the increase will hurt small business and cost many thousands of jobs.
Advocates said the 90-cent-an-hour rise, to $4.25 an hour by April 1991, is too small for the working poor, while opponents argued that the increase will still hurt small business and cost many thousands of jobs.the legislation reflected a compromise agreed to on Tuesday by President Bush and Democratic leaders in Congress.
agreed to on Tuesday by President Bush and Democratic leaders in Congress.congressional Republicans urged the White House to bend a bit from its previous resistance to compromise.
But the legislation reflected a compromise agreed to on Tuesday by President Bush and Democratic leaders in Congress, after congressional Republicans urged the White House to bend a bit from its previous resistance to compromise.both sides accepted the compromise.
the first lifting of the minimum wage.a four-year law was enacted in 1977.
There are no smiles about this bill.because it's all we've got, I'm going to vote for it.
But I'm going to vote for it.it's all we've got.
the level of $4.25 an hour in 1991 will still be less than 35% of average factory pay.the minimum wage had traditionally been pegged at half the average U.S. manufacturing wage.
While the minimum wage had traditionally been pegged at half the average U.S. manufacturing wage.the level of $4.25 an hour in 1991 will be less than 35% of average factory pay.
There are no smiles about this bill," Rep. Pat Williams (D., Mont.) said during House floor debate yesterday.Rep. Marge Roukema (R., N.J.) instead praised the House's acceptance of a new youth "training" wage, a subminimum that GOP administrations have sought for many years.
There are no smiles about this bill," Rep. Pat Williams (D., Mont.) said during House floor debate yesterday.But Rep. Marge Roukema (R., N.J.) praised the House's acceptance of a new youth "training" wage, a subminimum that GOP administrations have sought for many years.
Policy makers regard the youth wage as helping to limit the loss of jobs from an increase in the minimum wage.they have lately touted it as necessary to help impart job skills to entrants into the work force.
and for another 90 days.the company uses a government-certified training program for the young workers.
to entice Nekoosa into negotiating a friendly surrender.talking tough.
to entice Nekoosa into negotiating a friendly surrender.talking tough.
So far, Mr. Hahn is trying to entice Nekoosa into negotiating a friendly surrender while talking tough. "We are prepared to pursue aggressively completion of this transaction.a takeover battle opens up the possibility of a bidding war, with all that implies.
for example, Mr. Hahn could face the dilemma of paying a premium for Nekoosa or seeing the company fall into the arms of a rival.a competitor enters the game.
But a takeover battle opens up the possibility of a bidding war, with all that implies.If a competitor enters the game Mr. Hahn could face the dilemma of paying a premium for Nekoosa or seeing the company fall into the arms of a rival.
He isn't of the old school of winning at any cost.He is a consensus manager.
He also is a consensus manager.The decision to make the bid for Nekoosa was made only after all six members of Georgia-Pacific's management committee signed onto the deal.
The decision to make the bid for Nekoosa, for example, was made.all six members of Georgia-Pacific's management committee signed onto the deal.
The decision to make the bid for Nekoosa, for example, was made only after all six members of Georgia-Pacific's management committee signed onto the deal.Mr. Hahn knew he wanted to go after the company early on.
Assuming that post at the age of 35, he managed by consensus, as is the rule in universities.he also showed a willingness to take a strong stand.
Assuming that post at the age of 35, he managed by consensus, as is the rule in universities.But he showed a willingness to take a strong stand.
whom Mr. Hahn had met.fundraising for the institute.
the move befuddled many in Georgia-Pacific who didn't believe a university administrator could make the transition to the corporate world.Mr. Hahn rose swiftly through the ranks, demonstrating a raw intelligence that he says he knew he possessed early on.
Mr. Hahn skipped first grade.his reading ability was so far above his classmates.
he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Kentucky at age 18.spending only 2 1/2 years in college.
agrees that he has a "retentive" memory.that's an understatement.
But Mr. Hahn rose swiftly through the ranks.Mr. Hahn has engineered a surprising turnaround of Georgia-Pacific.
building up the pulp and paper segment of the company.refocusing building products on home repair and remodeling, rather than materials for new-home construction.
The resulting company would be the largest forest-products concern in the world with combined sales of more than $13 billion.can Mr. Hahn carry it off.
The conference approved at least $55 million in direct cash and development assistance as well.both sides are committed to adding more than $200 million in economic support funds and environmental initiatives sought by the Bush administration.
and both sides are committed to adding more than $200 million in economic support funds and environmental initiatives sought by the Bush administration.no decision was made.
which has already provoked veto threats by the White House and is sharply confined under this year's budget.These fiscal pressures are a factor in shaping the Poland package.
These fiscal pressures are also a factor in shaping the Poland package.the appropriations bill in conference will be more decisive on U.S. aid to Eastern Europe.
and the appropriations bill in conference will be more decisive on U.S. aid to Eastern Europe.more ambitious authorizing legislation is still pending.
the House Appropriations Committee last week was required to reallocate an estimated $140 million from the Pentagon.recent experience with a similar program in Central America indicates that it could take several years before the new Polish government can fully use the aid effectively.
And recent experience with a similar program in Central America indicates that it could take several years before the new Polish government can fully use the aid effectively.the size of the loan guarantees approved yesterday is significant.
that it could take several years.the new Polish government can fully use the aid effectively.
The action on Poland came.the conference separately approved $220 million for international population planning activities, an 11% increase over fiscal 1989.
A House-Senate conference approved major portions of a package for more than $500 million in economic aid for Poland.as the conference approved $220 million for international population planning activities, an 11% increase over fiscal 1989.
The House and Senate are divided over whether the United Nations Population Fund will receive any portion of these appropriations.the size of the increase is itself significant.
Panama was stripped of this right because of U.S. differences with the Noriega regime.the Central American country would have received a quota of 30,537 metric tons over a 21-month period ending Sept. 30, 1990.
About a quarter of this share has already been reallocated, according to the industry.the remaining 23,403 tons are still a lucrative target for growers.
but the remaining 23,403 tons are still a lucrative target for growers.the current U.S. price of 18 cents a pound runs as much as a nickel a pound above the world rate.
The potential sales are nearly $9.3 million.House Majority Whip William Gray (D., Pa.) began the bidding this year.
Rep. Jerry Lewis, a conservative Californian, added a provision of his own intended to assist Bolivia.the Senate then broadened the list further.
Rep. Jerry Lewis, a conservative Californian, added a provision of his own intended to assist Bolivia.and the Senate broadened the list further by including all countries in the U.S. Caribbean Basin initiate as well as the Philippines-backed by the powerful Hawaii Democrat Sen. Daniel Inouye.
Jamaica, wary of upsetting its Caribbean Basin allies, has apparently instructed its lobbyist to abandon the provision initially drafted by Mr. Gray.the greater question is whether Mr. Inouye, who has strong ties to the sugar industry, is able to insert a claim by the Philippines.
In separate floor action, the House waived budget restrictions and gave quick approval to $3.18 billion in supplemental appropriations for law enforcement and anti-drug programs in fiscal 1990.that goes to the Senate and carries with it a proposed permanent smoking ban on virtually all U.S. domestic airline flights.
The leadership hopes to move the compromise measure promptly to the White House.in recent days, the Senate has been as likely to bounce bills back to the House.
The most recent example was a nearly $17.3 billion fiscal 1990 bill funding the State, Justice and Commerce departments.after losing a battle Tuesday night with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, appropriators from both houses are expected to be forced back to conference.
And appropriators from both houses are expected to be forced back to conference.losing a battle Tuesday night with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
EVERYONE AGREES that most of the nation's old bridges need to be repaired or replaced.there's disagreement over how to do it.
Highway officials insist the ornamental railings on older bridges aren't strong enough to prevent vehicles from crashing through.other people don't want to lose the bridges' beautiful, sometimes historic, features.
The bottom half of the railing will be type F.the top half will have the old bridge's floral pattern.
Citizens in Peninsula, Ohio, upset over changes to a bridge, negotiated a deal: The bottom half of the railing will be type F, while the top half will have the old bridge's floral pattern.highway engineers agreed to keep the old railings on the Key Bridge in Washington, D.C., as long as they could install a crash barrier between the sidewalk and the road.
Similarly, highway engineers agreed to keep the old railings on the Key Bridge in Washington, D.C.they could install a crash barrier between the sidewalk and the road.
his design virtually eliminates spilling.the carrier costs less and takes up less space than most paper carriers.
A driver has to find something to hang the carrier on.the company supplies a window hook.
it isn't recyclable.it breaks down in prolonged sunlight.
it isn't recyclable.unlike some trays, there's no place for food.
like, `Why do you make 15 different corkscrews.all you need is one good one.
It would ease jail overcrowding.preserving historic structures.
Eggers Group architects propose using grain elevators to house prisoners.New York state says "no.
Many are far enough from residential areas to pass public muster.close enough to permit family visits.
Grain elevators built in the 1920s and '30s have six-inch concrete walls and a tubular shape that would easily contain semicircular cells with a control point in the middle Many are far enough from residential areas to pass public muster, yet close enough to permit family visits.grain elevators are worth preserving for aesthetic reasons.
A medium-sized one in Brooklyn could be altered to house up to 1,000 inmates at a lower cost than building a new prison in upstate New York.A spokesman for the state calls the idea "not effective or cost efficient.
USX managers have known about many of the safety and health deficiencies at the plants for years.have failed to take necessary action to counteract the hazards.
they will receive very serious evaluation.we do.
it has been cooperating with OSHA.the agency began investigating the Clairton and Fairless works.
that they were corrected.safety problems were identified.
He has promised stiffer fines.the size of penalties sought by OSHA have been rising in recent years even before he took office this year.
though the size of penalties sought by OSHA have been rising in recent years.he took office this year.
Homeless people not only lack safety, privacy and shelter.they lack the elementary necessities of nutrition, cleanliness and basic health care.
that certain health problems may predispose a person to homelessness, others may be a consequence of it.a third category is composed of disorders whose treatment is difficult or impossible if a person lacks adequate shelter.
whose treatment is difficult or impossible.a person lacks adequate shelter.
preventing homelessness is an important objective.we look to the future.
that nearly 40% of the homeless population is made up of women and children.that only 25% of the homeless exhibits some combination of drug, alcohol and mental problems.
you don't sleep for fear of being robbed or murdered.you're homeless.
Some of the homeless, obviously, had pre-existing mental illness or addiction.many others have fallen through cracks in the economy into the grim, brutal world of our city streets.
what ways of escape are open to them other than drink, drugs or insanity.there.
Your research stopped.a convenient assertion could be made.
that "know a good thing.they see it.
that the march got its major support from self-serving groups that "know a good thing when they see it.that the crusade was based on greed or the profit motive.
Of the approximately 200 sponsors of the recent march in Washington for the homeless, you chose to cite such groups as the National Association of Home Builders and the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftsmen, insinuating that the march got its major support from self-serving groups that "know a good thing when they see it," and that the crusade was based on greed or the profit motive.isn't the desire for profit the driving force behind those who subscribe to, and advertise in, your paper.
Choose 203 business executives, including, perhaps, someone from your own staff.put them out on the streets.
that within a short time most of them would find Thunderbird a satisfactory substitute for Chivas Regal.that their "normal" phobias, anxieties, depressions and substance abuse would increase dramatically.
the shares will be convertible into Class B shares.that the company has the option to redeem the shares before a conversion takes place.
to redeem the shares.a conversion takes place.
The final vote came.the House rejected Republican efforts to weaken the bill and approved two amendments sought by organized labor.
The Bush administration has threatened to veto such a bill because of what it views as an undesirable intrusion into the affairs of industry.the 300-113 vote suggests that supporters have the potential to override a veto.
the measure hasn't yet come to the full floor.the Senate Commerce Committee has approved legislation similar to the House bill on airline leveraged buy-outs.
it is aimed at giving the Transportation Department the chance to review in advance transactions financed by large amounts of debt.the legislation would apply to acquisitions involving any major airline.
to block the buy-out.the acquisition is likely to financially weaken a carrier.
to financially weaken a carrier.safety would be impaired.
if the acquisition is likely to financially weaken a carrier.if the transaction would result in the sale of airline-related assets.
to block the buy-out.or the transaction would result in the sale of airline-related assets.
or if the transaction would result in the sale of airline-related assets.selling such assets had an overriding public benefit.
The department would be required to block the buy-out if the acquisition is likely to financially weaken a carrier so that safety would be impaired; its ability to compete would be sharply diminished; it would be put into foreign control; or if the transaction would result in the sale of airline-related assets -- unless selling such assets had an overriding public benefit.that would, in addition to the previous criteria require the department to block the acquisition of an airline if the added debt incurred were likely to result in a reduction in the number of the carrier's employees, or their wages or benefits.
to block the acquisition of an airline.the added debt incurred were likely to result in a reduction in the number of the carrier's employees, or their wages or benefits.
Rep. James Traficant (D., Ohio), said the amendment, which passed 271-147, would "let the American worker know that we consider them occasionally.Rep. Hammerschmidt said that the provision, which he dubbed a "special interest" amendment, was likely to make the bill even more controversial.
to reject airline acquisitions.the person seeking to purchase a carrier had run two or more airlines previously that have filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
You can do all this.you're not a reporter or a researcher or a scholar or a member of Congress.
You can do all this.you're not a reporter or a researcher or a scholar or a member of Congress.
You now may drop by the Voice of America offices in Washington and read the text of what the Voice is broadcasting to those 130 million people around the world who tune in to it each week..You can even take notes -- extensive notes, for the Voice folks won't look over your shoulder -- about what you read..You can do all this even if you're not a reporter or a researcher or a scholar or a member of Congress.my newspaper can print the text of those broadcasts.
Until the other day, you as an ordinary citizen of this democracy had no right to see what your government was telling your cousins around the world.I apparently had no right to print hither what the Voice was booming to yon.
It was censorship..It was outrageous.it was stupid.
that the Voice is a propaganda agency.this government shouldn't propagandize its own people.
That sounds neat.this government -- any government -- propagandizes its own people every day.
Propaganda is just information to support a viewpoint.the beauty of a democracy is that it enables you to hear or read every viewpoint and then make up your own mind on an issue.
to hear or read every viewpoint.and make up your own mind on an issue.
The Voice of America is a government agency that broadcasts news and views -- some might say propaganda -- in 43 languages to 130 million listeners around the world.a 1948 law barred the "dissemination" of that material in the U.S.
The law let scholars, reporters and researchers read texts of VOA material, only at VOA headquarters in Washington.it barred them from copying texts.
But a 1948 law barred the "dissemination" of that material in the U.S..The law let scholars, reporters and researchers read texts of VOA material, only at VOA headquarters in Washington, but it barred them from copying texts.of course, there's that word "dissemination.
You may come by the agency to read but not copy either manually or by photocopying," a Voice official explained.I asked.
but not copy either manually or by photocopying.are you free to reprint such material.
That sounded a lot like censorship.after years of letters and conversations that went nowhere, I sued.
A couple of weeks ago, I lost the case in federal district court in Des Moines..At least, that's the way it was reported.indeed, the lawsuit was dismissed.
A couple of weeks ago, I lost the case in federal district court in Des Moines.And the lawsuit was dismissed.
A couple of weeks ago, I lost the case in federal district court in Des Moines.I won the point.
The USIA officially and publicly declared the absolute right of everyone except the USIA to disseminate agency program materials in the United States," my lawyer, the scholarly Mark McCormick of Des Moines, said in a memo pointing out the facts and trying to make me feel good.the press reported that I had lost.
that all persons are allowed access to the materials, notwithstanding the statutory designations.the USIA has determined that it will not check the credentials of any person appearing and requesting to see the materials.
that, on reflection, anyone could view the VOA materials, not just the reporters, scholars, researchers and congressmen who are mentioned in the statute.that all of us could take extensive notes.
The agency publicly and officially declared in the lawsuit that persons who examine the materials may make notes.while the agency position is that persons may not take verbatim notes, no one will check to determine what notes a person has taken.
and no one will check to determine what notes a person has taken.the agency position is that persons may not take verbatim notes.
I had sought, in my suit, the right to print Voice material, which had been denied me.I had sought a right to receive the information.
that a right to print government information isn't very helpful.I have no right to get the information.
I had sought, in my suit, the right to print Voice material, which had been denied me, and I had sought a right to receive the information, arguing in effect that a right to print government information isn't very helpful if I have no right to get the information.the court disagreed.
But the court disagreed.now the situation is this: You have a right to read Voice of America scripts if you don't mind traveling to Washington every week or so and visiting the Voice office during business hours..I have a right to print those scripts if I go there and laboriously -- but no longer surreptitiously -- copy them out in long hand..But neither of us can copy the material on a Xerox machine or have it sent to us.
You have a right to read Voice of America scripts.you don't mind traveling to Washington every week or so and visiting the Voice office during business hours.
I have a right to print those scripts.I go there and laboriously -- but no longer surreptitiously -- copy them out in long hand.
You have a right to read Voice of America scripts if you don't mind traveling to Washington every week or so and visiting the Voice office during business hours..I have a right to print those scripts if I go there and laboriously -- but no longer surreptitiously -- copy them out in long hand.neither of us can copy the material on a Xerox machine or have it sent to us.
In an era when every government agency has a public-relations machine that sends you stuff whether you want it or not, this does seem odd.that the USIA's position is `inappropriate or even stupid.
that the USIA's position is `inappropriate or even stupid.it's the law.
Indeed that "it would be easy to conclude that the USIA's position is `inappropriate or even stupid, '" but it's the law.the next step, I suspect, is to try to get the law changed.
the nice people at the Voice would be able to send you the information or, at the very least, let you photocopy it.those words weren't there.
What does USIA say about America abroad; how do we say it.how can American taxpayers get the answers to these questions.
Herbert M. Baum, the 53-year-old president of the company's Campbell U.S.A. unit, and Edwin L. Harper, 47, the chief financial officer, will run Campbell as a team.a successor is named.
Growth has fallen short of targets.operating earnings are far below results in U.S. units.
Growth has fallen short of targets and operating earnings are far below results in U.S. units.Campbell is a distant third in the U.K. frozen foods market.
For example, Campbell is a distant third in the U.K. frozen foods market, where it recently paid 24 times earnings for Freshbake Foods PLC and wound up with far more capacity than it could use.Campbell's Italian biscuit operation, D. Lazzaroni & Co., has been hurt by overproduction and distribution problems.
Such problems will require considerable skill to resolve.neither Mr. Baum nor Mr. Harper has much international experience.
who controlled about 58% of Campbell's stock.he died in April.
In August, the company took a $343 million pretax charge against fiscal 1989 earnings.it announced a world-wide restructuring plan.
In August, the company took a $343 million pretax charge against fiscal 1989 earnings.it announced a world-wide restructuring plan.
The plan calls for closing at least nine plants and eliminating about 3,600 jobs.early results from the reorganization have been disappointing, especially in Europe.
early results from the reorganization have been disappointing, especially in Europe.there were signs that the board became impatient.
The CEO succession is well along.I've decided for personal reasons to take early retirement.
The company's prepared statement quoted him as saying, "The CEO succession is well along and I've decided for personal reasons to take early retirement.people familiar with the agenda of the board's meeting last week in London said Mr. McGovern was fired.
to stay on.he reached the conventional retirement age of 65 in October 1991.
to stay on until he reached the conventional retirement age of 65 in October 1991.I get fired.
During Mr. McGovern's nine-year term as president, the company's sales rose to $5.7 billion from $2.8 billion.net income increased to $274 million from $130 million.
that the board would give the current duo until early next year.naming a new chief executive.
his departure "evolved out of discussions with Si Newhouse.that's the decision I reached.
In an interview, Mr. Bernstein said his departure "evolved out of discussions with Si Newhouse and that's the decision I reached.Mr. Newhouse insisted that he isn't unhappy with Mr. Bernstein or the performance of Random House, the largest trade publishing house in the U.S.
In an interview, Mr. Bernstein said his departure "evolved out of discussions with Si Newhouse and that's the decision I reached.Mr. Newhouse insisted that he isn't unhappy with Mr. Bernstein or the performance of Random House, the largest trade publishing house in the U.S.
The company is doing well, it's stable, it's got good people..Bob has an agenda.this seemed like the natural time.
that some of the bigger ones haven't been absorbed so easily.Random House has enjoyed spectacular growth and has smoothly integrated many acquisitions in recent years.
Mr. Bernstein has been only the second president of Random House.it was founded in 1925.
Speculation on his successor centers on a number of division heads at the house.There is speculation that Mr. Newhouse could bring in a powerhouse businessman or another Newhouse family member to run the business side, in combination with a publishing executive like Robert Gottlieb, who left Random House's Alfred A. Knopf to run the New Yorker, also owned by the Newhouse family.
several important divisions that had reported to her predecessor weren't included.Ms. Evans took her job.
several important divisions that had reported to her predecessor weren't included.she didn't wish to be a full-time administrator.
Mr. Mehta is widely viewed as a brilliant editor but a less-than-brilliant administrator.his own departure was rumored recently.
The framers hardly discussed the appropriations clause at the Constitutional Convention of 1787, according to Madison's notes.the framers believed that the nation needed a unitary executive with the independence and resources to perform the executive functions that the Confederation Congress had performed poorly under the Articles of Confederation.
It would contradict that objective.the appropriations clause (technically a limitation on legislative power) could be read as placing the president on Congress's short leash.
the appropriations bill for the executive office of the president for fiscal 1990 contained some breathtaking attempts by Congress to rewrite the Constitution under the pretext of protecting the public's money.it went to the conference panel now deliberating.
whether to veto the bills containing them.or to sign these bills into law with a statement declaring their intrusions on executive power to be in violation of Article II, and thus void and severable.
to be in violation of Article II.and void and severable.
Article II places on the president the duty to nominate, "and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate" appoint, ambassadors, judges, and other officers of the U.S.It empowers the president to make recess appointments, without Senate approval.
Article II places on the president the duty to nominate, "and by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate" appoint, ambassadors, judges, and other officers of the U.S..It also empowers the president to make recess appointments, without Senate approval: "The President shall have Power to fill up all Vacancies that may happen during the Recess of the Senate, by granting Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next Session.Section 605 of the appropriations bill for the executive office provides: "No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated.the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.
No part of any appropriation for the current fiscal year contained in this or any other Act shall be paid to any person for the filling of any position for which he or she has been nominated after the Senate has voted not to approve the nomination of said person.with one brief passage in an appropriations bill, Congress repeals the president's power to make recess appointments under Article II.
Thus, with one brief passage in an appropriations bill, Congress repeals the president's power to make recess appointments under Article II.Section 605 imposes unconstitutional conditions on the president's ability to nominate candidates of his choosing.
The president could probably not avoid this restriction by choosing people willing to serve without pay.the Anti-Deficiency Act prohibits voluntary service to the government.
Section 605 also imposes unconstitutional conditions on the president's ability to nominate candidates of his choosing.The 1990 appropriations bills contain a number of "muzzling" provisions that violate the recommendation clause in Article II of the Constitution.
This provision amounts to a legislative veto over the president's execution of the law.a one-house resolution could be said to be "duly adopted.
since a one-house resolution could be said to be "duly adopted.it would require neither bicameral action in Congress nor presentation to the president for his signature or veto.
he will invite Congress, for the remainder of his presidency, to rewrite Article II of the Constitution to suit its purposes.President Bush fails to do so in his first year.
By 1987, then-Speaker Jim Wright was discussing arms control in Moscow with Mikhail Gorbachev.and attempting to direct the president, through an appropriations rider, to treat the Soviets as though the Senate had ratified SALT II.
the president could sign the appropriations bills into law and assert a power of excision.a veto is unworkable because it would leave part of the executive branch unfunded.
If a veto is unworkable.it would leave part of the executive branch unfunded.
The Constitution does not expressly give the president such power.the president does have a duty not to violate the Constitution.
that are objectionable.they conflict with his policy objectives.
There is no downside.the president asserts a right of excision over unconstitutional conditions in the fiscal 1990 appropriations bills.
President Bush will have won.Congress does nothing.
President Bush might win.Congress takes the dispute to the Supreme Court.
it might be disappointing.President Bush loses at the court.
If President Bush loses at the court, it might be disappointing, as Morrison v..Olson was for the Reagan administration.the presidency would be no worse off than it is now.
But the presidency would be no worse off than it is now.the electorate would have received a valuable civics lesson in how the separation of powers works in practice.
he will help realize Madison's fear in The Federalist No. 48 of a legislature "everywhere extending the sphere of its activity and drawing all powers into its impetuous vortex.he does not.
Net cash income -- the amount left in farmers' pockets after deducting expenses from gross cash income -- increased in 33 states in 1988.the drought cut into crop yields and drove up commodity prices.
With prices soaring, they were able to sell the reclaimed commodities at "considerable profit.In less parched areas farmers who had little or no loss of production profited greatly from the higher prices.
With prices soaring, they were able to sell the reclaimed commodities at "considerable profit.In less parched areas farmers who had little or no loss of production profited greatly from the higher prices.
Last year's record net cash income confirms the farm sector's rebound from the agricultural depression of the early 1980s.It helps explain the reluctance of the major farm lobbies and many lawmakers to make any significant changes in the 1985 farm program next year.
Commodity prices have been rising in recent years, with the farm price index hitting record peaks earlier this year.the government curtailed production with land-idling programs to reduce price-depressing surpluses.
At the same time, export demand for U.S. wheat, corn and other commodities strengthened.Farmers benefited from strong livestock prices, as the nation's cattle inventory dropped close to a 30-year low.
Farmers also benefited from strong livestock prices.the nation's cattle inventory dropped close to a 30-year low.
Department economists don't expect 1989 to be as good a year as 1988 was.net cash income is likely to fall this year as farm expenses rise and government payments to farmers decline.
Indeed, net cash income is likely to fall this year.farm expenses rise and government payments to farmers decline.
as farm expenses rise.government payments to farmers decline.
The Los Angeles Times, with a circulation of more than 1.1 million, dominates the region.it faces stiff competition in Orange County from the Orange County Register, which sells more than 300,000 copies a day, and in the San Fernando Valley from the Los Angeles Daily News, which sells more than 170,000.
But it faces stiff competition in Orange County from the Orange County Register, which sells more than 300,000 copies a day, and in the San Fernando Valley from the Los Angeles Daily News, which sells more than 170,000.Nearby cities such as Pasadena and Long Beach have large dailies.
Speculation had it that the company was asking $100 million for an operation said to be losing about $20 million a year.others said Hearst might have virtually given the paper away.
An attempted buy-out led by John J. McCabe, chief operating officer, never materialized.a stream of what one staff member dismissed as "tire-kickers and lookee-loos" had filed through since.
Los Angeles is a sprawling, balkanized newspaper market.advertisers seemed to feel they could buy space in the mammoth Times, then target a particular area with one of the regional dailies.
they could buy space in the mammoth Times.target a particular area with one of the regional dailies.
The Herald was left in limbo.the Herald seemed torn editorially between keeping its old-time Hearst readership -- blue-collar and sports-oriented -- and trying to provide a sprightly, upscale alternative to the sometimes staid Times.
Actually, the long deterioration in daily newspapers shows signs of coming to an end.the industry looks pretty healthy.
He and his successor, Mary Anne Dolan, restored respect for the editorial product.though in recent years the paper had been limping along on limited resources, its accomplishments were notable.
and its accomplishments were notable.in recent years the paper had been limping along on limited resources.
and its accomplishments were notable.the Herald consistently beat its much-larger rival on disclosures about Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley's financial dealings.
For example, the Herald consistently beat its much-larger rival on disclosures about Los Angeles Mayor Tom Bradley's financial dealings.The Herald's sports coverage and arts criticism were highly regarded.
that no buyers had stepped forward.that the paper would fold, putting more than 730 full-time employees out of work.
I'm doing the main story.I'm already two beers drunk.
whom the Times hired away several years ago.who returned to the Herald out of preference.
but who returned to the Herald out of preference.His wife works for the paper, as did his father.
Forget it," he said.he handed her a paper.
don't leave home without the American Express card.you'd really rather have a Buick.
If you'd really rather have a Buick, don't leave home without the American Express card.so the slogan might go.
at boosting Buick's sales.encouraging broader use of the American Express card.
at boosting Buick's sales.encouraging broader use of the American Express card.
Buick approached American Express about a joint promotion.its card holders generally have a "good credit history" and are "good at making payments.
because its card holders generally have a "good credit history" and are "good at making payments.American Express represents the upscale image "we're trying to project.
Sales were roughly flat in the 1989 model year compared with a year earlier.industry sales fell.
Sales were roughly flat in the 1989 model year compared with a year earlier, though industry sales fell.since the 1990 model year began Oct. 1, Buick sales have plunged 33%.
But Buick sales have plunged 33%.the 1990 model year began Oct. 1.
Many auto dealers now let car buyers charge part or all of their purchase on the American Express card.few card holders realize this.
Many auto dealers now let car buyers charge part or all of their purchase on the American Express card.Until now buyers who wanted to finance part of a car purchase through General Motors Acceptance Corp. couldn't put their down payment on a charge card because of possible conflicts with truth-in-lending and state disclosure laws over finance rates.
Until now, however, buyers who wanted to finance part of a car purchase through General Motors Acceptance Corp. couldn't put their down payment on a charge card because of possible conflicts with truth-in-lending and state disclosure laws over finance rates.GMAC approved the Buick program because the American Express green card requires payment in full upon billing, and so doesn't carry any finance rates.
But GMAC approved the Buick program.the American Express green card requires payment in full upon billing, and so doesn't carry any finance rates.
because the American Express green card requires payment in full upon billing.and doesn't carry any finance rates.
GM and Buick "very sophisticated direct-mail marketers.by joining forces with them we have managed to maximize our direct-mail capability.
American Express considers GM and Buick "very sophisticated direct-mail marketers," so "by joining forces with them we have managed to maximize our direct-mail capability.Buick is a relatively respected nameplate among American Express card holders.
Buick came in fourth among U.S. cars and in the top 10 of all cars.the company asked members in a mailing which cars they would like to get information about for possible future purchases.
American Express has more than 24 million card holders in the U.S.over half have the green card.
Some 3.8 million of the five million who will get letters were preapproved for credit with GMAC.These 3.8 million people are eligible to get one percentage point off GMAC's advertised finance rates, which start at 6.9% for two-year loan contracts.
but gets a companion's ticket free.they fly on United Airlines.
In lieu of the vacation, buyers can choose among several prizes, including a grandfather clock or a stereo videocassette recorder.Card holders who receive the letter are eligible for a sweepstakes with Buick cars or a Hawaii vacation as prizes.
they get an American Express calculator.they test-drive a Buick.
the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham ran up.losing heavily on swap transactions.
In response to the ruling, gilt futures swiftly plunged more than a point yesterday.recovering much of the loss by the end of the session.
they are betting against each other on future rates.two parties engage in an interest-rate swap.
When two parties engage in an interest-rate swap, they are betting against each other on future rates.an institution obligated to make fixed-rate interest payments on debt swaps the payments with another making floating-rate payments.
municipalities owed the banks more than the banks were paying them.interest rates rose.
the court decision could set a precedent for similar transactions by 77 other local councils.the Hammersmith and Fulham council was by far the most active local authority engaging in such capital-markets transactions.
it will obviously be very persuasive in other cases of a similar nature.this court ruling was only on Hammersmith.
it is possible that they would seek to have the illegality ruling work both ways.the banks exhaust all avenues of appeal.
Since October's minicrash, Wall Street has been shaken by an explosion of resentment against program trading, the computer-driven, lightning-fast trades of huge baskets of stocks and futures that can send stock prices reeling in minutes.the heated fight over program trading is about much more than a volatile stock market.
Program trading itself is merely caught in the middle of this battle, unfairly labeled as the evil driving force of the marketplace.that program trading didn't cause the market's sharp fall on Oct. 13.
that program trading didn't, in fact, cause the market's sharp fall on Oct. 13.it may have exacerbated it.
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange, a major futures marketplace, yesterday announced the addition of another layer of trading halts designed to slow program traders during a rapidly falling stock market.the Big Board is expected today to approve some additional restrictions on program trading.
The Old Guard's assault on program trading and its practitioners has been fierce and broad-based.some Old Guard members feel their very livelihood is at stake.
The Old Guard's assault on program trading and its practitioners has been fierce and broad-based, in part because some Old Guard members feel their very livelihood is at stake..Some, such as traditional money manager Neuberger & Berman, have taken out national newspaper advertisements demanding that market regulators "stop the numbers racket on Wall Street.".Big Board stock specialists, in a bold palace revolt, began shortly after Oct. 13 to telephone the corporate executives of the companies whose stock is listed on the Big Board to have them pressure the exchange to ban program trading he has received "countless" letters offering support. "They said universally, without a single exception: Don't even compromise..Kill it.Wall Street's New Guard isn't likely to take all this lying down for long.
Program trading money managers have gained control over a big chunk of the invested funds in this country.the pressures on such money managers to produce consistent profits has wedded them to the ability to move rapidly in and out the market that program trading gives them.
What's more, the last time major Wall Street firms said they were getting out of program trading -- in the aftermath of the 1987 crash -- they waited a few months.and sneaked back into it.
the exchange is "headed for a real crisis.program trading isn't curbed.
Corporations like Contel denounce program trading.Contel has in the past hired pension fund managers like Bankers Trust Co. that are also big program traders.
Its entrenched 49 stock specialists firms are fighting tooth and nail against programs.the Big Board's leadership -- over the specialists' protests -- two weeks ago began trading a new stock "basket" product designed to facilitate program trading.
I would like to go back to 1970.we are not going back to 1970.
Again and again, program-trading's critics raise the "casino" theme.The program traders portray old-fashioned stock pickers as the Neanderthals of the industry.
Critics like Mr. Murray "are looking for witches.people who use computers to trade are a convenient boogieman.
the traders place orders via computers to buy the basket of stocks (such as the 500 stocks that constitute the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index) in whichever market is cheaper and sell them in the more expensive market.it occurs.
the investor becomes frightened -- any investor: the odd lotter, mutual funds and pension funds.you continue to do this.
The speed with which such program trades take place and the volatile price movements they can cause are what program trading critics profess to despise.many experts and traders say that program trading isn't the main reason for stock-market gyrations.
a "circuit breaker" that halted trading in stock futures in Chicago made some program trading impossible.program trades swiftly kicked in.
a "circuit breaker" that halted trading in stock futures in Chicago made some program trading impossible.program trades swiftly kicked in.
Many arbs are "overleveraged.they "have to sell when things look like they fall apart.
and they "have to sell.things look like they fall apart.
Like virtually everything on Wall Street, the program-trading battle is over money.the traditionalists have been losing out on bundles of it to the New Guard in recent years.
Traditional stock managers like to charge 50 cents to 75 cents for every $100 they manage for big institutional investors, and higher fees for smaller investors.many such managers consistently fail to even keep up with, much less beat, the returns of standard benchmarks like the S&P.
that use computers to juggle portfolios.they mirror the S&P 500.
The specialists see any step to electronic trading as a death knell.they believe the Big Board, under Mr. Phelan, has abandoned their interest.
And they believe the Big Board, under Mr. Phelan, has abandoned their interest.The son of a specialist and once one himself, Mr. Phelan has been striving -- with products like the new stock basket that his former colleagues dislike so much -- to keep index funds and other program traders from taking their business to overseas markets.
The new Wall Street of computers and automated trading threatens to make dinosaurs of the 49 Big Board stock-specialist firms.specialists' trading risks have skyrocketed as a result of stock-market volatility.
you can hear the order printers start to go" on the Big Board trading floor.the sell programs hit.
The buyers walk away.the specialist is left alone" as the buyer of last resort for his stable of stocks.
Small investors are absolutely dismayed that Wall Street is stacking the deck against them.these wide swings are scaring them to death.
By this September, program traders were doing a record 13.8% of the Big Board's average daily trading volume.then came Oct. 13 and the negative publicity orchestrated by the Old Guard, particularly against index arbitrage.
By this September, program traders were doing a record 13.8% of the Big Board's average daily trading volume.But came Oct. 13 and the negative publicity orchestrated by the Old Guard, particularly against index arbitrage.
Wall Street's cash cow has been gored.I don't think anyone has proven that index arbitrage is the problem.
Too much money is at stake for program traders to give up.stock-index futures began trading in Chicago in 1982, and within two years they were the fastest-growing futures contract ever launched.
For example, stock-index futures began trading in Chicago in 1982.within two years they were the fastest-growing futures contract ever launched.
The anti-programmers are getting some helpful thunder from Congress.the prospects for legislation that targets program trading is unlikely anytime soon.
The Big Board's directors meet today to approve some program-trading restrictions.a total ban isn't being considered.
Program trading is here to stay.computers are here to stay.
Program trading is here to stay, and computers are here to stay.we just need to understand it.
One such proposal regarding stock-index futures is an increase in the margin requirement -- or the "good-faith" payment of cash needed to trade them -- to about the same level as the margin requirement for stocks.Program trading critics want the Federal Reserve Board, rather than the futures industry, to set such margins.
The Big Board's uptick rule prevents the short sale of a stock.the stock is falling in price.
The Big Board's uptick rule prevents the short sale of a stock when the stock is falling in price.in 1986, program traders received what amounted to an exemption from the uptick rule in certain situations.
that he could support letting federal regulators suspend program trading during wild stock-price swings.the band-wagon psychology of recent days picks up new impetus.
In index arbitrage, the widget is the S&P 500.its price is constantly compared between the futures market in Chicago and the stock markets largely in New York.
he is likely to remain fully invested at all times.the money manager performing this service is being paid by his clients to match or beat the return of the S&P 500 index.
Few, if any, index-fund managers will risk leveraging performance by owning more than 100% exposure to stocks.equally few will want to own less than a 100% position should stocks rise.
these small opportunities between markets will be reduced and, eventually, eliminated.more managers pursue the index-arbitrage strategy.
these small opportunities between markets will be reduced and, eventually, eliminated.more managers pursue the index-arbitrage strategy.
The current opportunities arise.the process for executing a buy or sell order in the actual stocks that make up the S&P 500 is more cumbersome than transacting in the futures market.
As usually practiced it takes advantage of a rather basic concept: Two separate markets in different locations, trading basically the same widgets, can't trade them for long at prices that are widely different.if index arbitrage is simply taking advantage of thin inefficiencies between two markets for the same widget, how did "program trading" evolve into the evil creature that is evoking the curses of so many observers.
So how did "program trading" evolve into the evil creature that is evoking the curses of so many observers.index arbitrage is simply taking advantage of thin inefficiencies between two markets for the same widget.
All arguments against program trading, even those pressed without fact, conclude with three expected results 1) reduced volatility, 2) a long-term investment focus, and 3) a level playing field for the small investor.reforms" are implemented.
All arguments against program trading, even those pressed without fact, conclude with three expected results after "reforms" are implemented: 1) reduced volatility, 2) a long-term investment focus, and 3) a level playing field for the small investor.many of these reforms are unneeded, even harmful.
An index-arbitrage trade is never executed.there is sufficient difference between the markets in New York and Chicago to cover all transaction costs.
A large investor will likely cause the futures market to decline.he sells his futures.
Arbitrage simply transfers his selling pressure from Chicago to New York.functioning as a buyer in Chicago.
In a competitive market, this investor has many ways to execute his transactions.he will have more alternatives (both foreign and domestic) if his volume is profitable for an exchange to handle.
and he will have more alternatives (both foreign and domestic).his volume is profitable for an exchange to handle.
Volatility surrounding his trades occurs not because of index arbitrage.but his is a large addition or subtraction to a widget market with finite liquidity.
Eliminate arbitrage.liquidity will decline instead of rising.
The speed of his transaction isn't to be feared either.faster and cleaner execution is desirable, not loathsome.
stone tablets should become the trade ticket of the future.slowing things down could reduce volatility.
The ultimate goal of any investor is a profit motive.regulators should not concern themselves with whether investors are sufficiently focused on the long term.
Periods before the advent of futures or program trading were often more volatile.fundamental market conditions were undergoing change (1973-75, 1937-40, and 1928-33 for example).
the fundamental stock pickers scream "foul" on program trading.the markets decline.
the fundamental stock pickers scream "foul" on program trading when the markets decline.hailing the great values still abounding as the markets rise.
while hailing the great values still abounding.the markets rise.
while hailing the great values still abounding.the markets rise.
In using program trading as a whipping boy, fundamentalist investors stand to gain the high ground in wooing small investors for their existing stock-selection products.They may risk bringing some damaging interference from outside the markets themselves.
They continually advise their clients on which individual stocks to buy or sell.their clients continue to hope for superior performance.
Even with mutual funds, the little investor continues to tolerate high fees, high commissions and poor performance.index-fund managers slowly amass a better record with lower fees, lower commissions and less risk.
Even with mutual funds, the little investor continues to tolerate high fees, high commissions and poor performance, while index-fund managers slowly amass a better record with lower fees, lower commissions and less risk.our efforts are somehow less noble than those of an investment expert studiously devouring press clippings on each company he follows.
Almost all new regulation is introduced in the interests of protecting the little guy.he invariably is the one least able to cope with its consequences.
surely any sizable mutual-fund company could profit from offering it to small investors.spreads available from index arbitrage are so enormous.
to pursue stellar performers first.leaving institutions to grapple with basis points of performance on large sums of money quarter by quarter.
that retail customers frequently pay.that institutional customers refuse to pay.
Left to its own devices, index arbitrage will become more and more efficient, making it harder and harder to do profitably..Spreads will become so tight that it won't matter which market an investor chooses -- arbitrage will prevent him from gaining any temporary profit.If government or private watchdogs insist on introducing greater friction between the markets (limits on price moves, two-tiered execution, higher margin requirements, taxation, etc.), the end loser will be the markets themselves.
If government or private watchdogs insist, however, on introducing greater friction between the markets (limits on price moves, two-tiered execution, higher margin requirements, taxation, etc.).we ought to be inviting more liquidity with cheaper ways to trade and transfer capital among all participants.
Some Democrats unsuccessfully opposed the measure.they fear that the fees may not fully make up for the budget cuts.
Some Democrats unsuccessfully opposed the measure because they fear that the fees may not fully make up for the budget cuts.they expect the filing fees to make up for the budget reductions and possibly exceed them.
Under measures approved by both houses of Congress, the administration's request for $47 million for the Antitrust Division would be cut $15 million.The FTC budget request of $70 million, about $34 million of which would go for antitrust enforcement, would be cut by $15 million.
Under that law, parties proposing mergers or acquisitions valued at $15 million or more must notify FTC and Justice Department antitrust regulators.completing the transactions.
there is not a cut, but there is in fact a program increase of $5 million" each for the FTC and the Justice Department.you do that.
there is not a cut.there is in fact a program increase of $5 million" each for the FTC and the Justice Department.
there is not a cut.but there is a program increase of $5 million" each for the FTC and the Justice Department.
Proponents of the funding arrangement predict that, based on recent filing levels of more than 2,000 a year, the fees will yield at least $40 million this fiscal year, or $10 million more than the budget cuts.Rep. Don Edwards (D., Calif.) responded that a recession could stifle merger activity, reducing the amount of fees collected.
The antitrust staffs of both the FTC and Justice Department were cut more than 40% in the Reagan administration.enforcement of major merger cases fell off drastically during that period.
government officials said they hadn't noticed any surge in filings.some lawyers reported that prospective acquirers were scrambling to make filings before the fees take effect.
to make filings.the fees take effect.
Odd-year elections attract relatively few ballot issues.the 1989 fall total of 80, while well below 1988 activity, shows "a steady ratcheting up in citizen referenda and initiatives.
But the 1989 fall total of 80 shows "a steady ratcheting up in citizen referenda and initiatives.well below 1988 activity.
PHOTOGRAPH COLLECTING gains new stature.prices rise.
At Christie's, a folio of 21 prints from Alfred Stieglitz's "Equivalents" series sold for $396,000, a single-lot record.Other works have been exceeding price estimates.
I know they aren't going to come back on the market.I see prints going into the hands of institutions.
Most in demand: classic photographs by masters such as Stieglitz and Man Ray.much contemporary work is also fetching "a great deal of money.
Most in demand: classic photographs by masters such as Stieglitz and Man Ray.But much contemporary work is fetching "a great deal of money.
Currently a $300 million-a-year business, 900 telephone service is expected to hit $500 million next year and near $2 billion by 1992.uses for the service continue to expand.
The service currently is dominated by celebrity chatter, horoscopes and romance lines.more serious applications are in the wings, and that is where the future growth is expected.
But more serious applications are in the wings.that is where the future growth is expected.
Charities test the waters.they face legal barriers to electronic fund raising.
Elisa Hollis launched a diaper service last year.State College, Pa., where she lives, didn't have one.
Concerned about shrinking landfills and the safety of chemicals used in super-absorbent disposables, parents are returning to the cloth diaper.spurring the move to cloth: diaper covers with Velcro fasteners that eliminate the need for safety pins.
Program trading is "a racket.it's not to the benefit of the small investor, that's for sure.
Program trading is "a racket and it's not to the benefit of the small investor, that's for sure.it could be stopped.
But he doubts it could be stopped.he thinks that it is hurting him.
Mr. Egnuss's dislike of program trading is echoed by many small investors interviewed by Wall Street Journal reporters across the country.like Mr. Egnuss, few expect it to be halted entirely, and a surprising number doubt it should be.
But like Mr. Egnuss, few expect it to be halted entirely.a surprising number doubt it should be.
that they have a smaller margin requirement than individual investors do.that they often can figure out earlier where the market is heading.
He notes that program traders have a commission cost advantage because of the quantity of their trades, that they have a smaller margin requirement than individual investors do and that they often can figure out earlier where the market is heading.he blames program trading for only some of the market's volatility.
But he blames program trading for only some of the market's volatility.He considers the market overvalued and cites the troubles in junk bonds.
But he blames program trading for only some of the market's volatility.as Dorothy Arighi, an interior decorator in Arnold, Calif., puts it: "All kinds of funny things spook the market these days.
Or All kinds of funny things spook the market these days.that "program trading creates deviant swings.
they threatened.no one did anything.
in outlawing program trading.who want to do it.
At the Charles Schwab & Co. office in Atlanta's Buckhead district, a group of investors voices skepticism that federal officials would curb program trading..Citing the October 1987 crash, Glenn Miller says, "It's like the last crash -- they threatened, but no one did anything." A. Donald Anderson, a 59-year-old Los Angeles investor who says the stock market's "fluctuations and gyrations give me the heebie-jeebies," doesn't see much point in outlawing program trading..Those who still want to do it "will just find some way to get around" any attempt to curb it.Rick Wamre, a 31-year-old asset manager for a Dallas real-estate firm, would like to see program trading disappear because "I can't see that it does anything for the market or the country." Yet he isn't in favor of new legislation.
Similarly, Rick Wamre, a 31-year-old asset manager for a Dallas real-estate firm, would like to see program trading disappear.I can't see that it does anything for the market or the country.
Similarly, Rick Wamre, a 31-year-old asset manager for a Dallas real-estate firm, would like to see program trading disappear.he isn't in favor of new legislation.
Peter Anthony, who runs an employment agency in New York, decries program trading as "limiting the game to a few.he also isn't sure it should be more strictly regulated.
Peter Anthony decries program trading as "limiting the game to a few.but he isn't sure it should be more strictly regulated.
I don't want to denounce it.denouncing it would be like denouncing capitalism.
Peter Anthony, who runs an employment agency in New York, decries program trading as "limiting the game to a few," but he also isn't sure it should be more strictly regulated.surprising numbers of small investors seem to be adapting to greater stock market volatility and say they can live with program trading.
that program trading "increases liquidity in the market.the practice shouldn't be stopped.
And the practice shouldn't be stopped.even big players aren't immune to the rigors of program trading.
that program trading "increases volatility.I don't think it should be banned.
that his shares in a company savings plan are invested in a mutual fund.volatility, on a given day, may hurt the fund.
that his shares in a company savings plan are invested in a mutual fund, and volatility, on a given day, may hurt the fund.I'm a long-term investor.
you might be more leery about program trading.you were a short-term investor.
Jim Enzor of Atlanta defends program trading.he believes that it can bring the market back up after a plunge.
the program would say, `Buy.we have a real bad day.
you could take advantage of it.you could get the rhythm of the program trading.
he had just recouped the $5,000 he lost in the 1987 crash.he lost more money last Oct. 13.
In October Mrs. Arighi of Arnold, Calif., moved to sell the "speculative stocks" in her family trust.the market dropped.
In October, before the market dropped, Mrs. Arighi of Arnold, Calif., moved to sell the "speculative stocks" in her family trust.we will be able to withstand all this flim-flammery" caused by program trading.
it's paper profits I'm losing.the market goes down.
If the market goes down, I figure it's paper profits I'm losing.if it goes way sky high, I always sell.
On the other hand I always sell.it goes way sky high.
Superconductors conduct electricity without resistance.cooled.
A family of ceramic superconductors discovered during the past three years promise new technologies such as cheaper electrical generation.only if their current-carrying capacity can be raised.
A family of ceramic superconductors discovered during the past three years promise new technologies such as cheaper electrical generation.but their current-carrying capacity can be raised.
The AT&T advance shows how one aspect of the current-carrying problem can be overcome.it won't lead to imminent use" of new superconductors.
that creates some radioactivity in the samples and may not be feasible for large-scale commercial use.scientists breathed a collective sigh of relief about the finding.
Still, scientists breathed a collective sigh of relief about the finding.it demonstrates how to overcome the "flux pinning" problem that earlier this year was widely publicized as undercutting new superconductors' potential.
that researchers are trying to determine precisely what crystal changes solved the problem.The AT&T team is trying to combine their latest superconductor process with "melt-textured growth," a process discovered earlier at Bell Laboratories.
William C. Walbrecher Jr., an executive at San Francisco-based 1st Nationwide Bank, was named president and chief executive officer of Citadel Holding Corp. and its principal operating unit, Fidelity Federal Bank.Citadel posted a third-quarter net loss of $2.3 million, or 68 cents a share, versus net income of $5.3 million, or $1.61 a share, a year earlier.
The latest results include some unusual write-downs, which had an after-tax impact of $4.9 million.operating results were hit by an increase in loan and real estate loss reserves.
The 7 3/8% term bonds due 2009 are priced at 99 1/2 to yield 7.422%.7 3/8% term bonds due 2019 are priced at 99 to yield 7.458%.
The 7.40% term bonds due 2009 are priced to yield 7.45%.7.40% term bonds due 2017 are priced to yield 7.50%.
The 7 5/8% bonds due 2009 are priced to yield 7.65%.7 5/8% bonds due 2029 are priced at 98 1/2 to yield 7.74%.
to buy shares at an expected premium of 2 1/2% to the closing price.terms are fixed Tuesday.
San Francisco Giants owner Bob Lurie hopes to have a new home for them.his team lost the World Series.
Small wonder.he's asking San Francisco taxpayers to sink up to $100 million into the new stadium.
opponents say the last thing the city can afford is an expensive new stadium.San Francisco digs out from The Pretty Big One.
Voters generally agree.they are given a chance to decide if they want to sink their own tax dollars into a new mega-stadium.
Its backers fielded every important interest on their team -- a popular mayor, the Chamber of Commerce, the major media -- and spent $100,000 on promotion.voters decided that if the stadium was such a good idea someone would build it himself, and rejected it 59% to 41%.
that someone would build it himself.the stadium was such a good idea.
he had Candlestick built.the Giants claimed they needed 10,000 parking spaces.
Mr. Christopher thinks backers are playing some fiscal "games" of their own with the voters.the new park will have only 1,500 spaces.
Miami Dolphins owner Joe Robbie disagrees.he can prove it.
trying to persuade Miami to improve its city-owned Orange Bowl.and built his own $100 million coliseum with private funds.
This stadium shows that anything government can do, we can do better.to Moon Landrieu, the former New Orleans mayor who helped build that city's cavernous, money-losing Superdome, questions of who benefits or the bottom line are of little relevance.
An Egyptian Pharaoh couldn't have justified his pyramids any better.civilization has moved forward since then.
there was a one-time gain of #18 million in the 1988 period.there were no one-time gains or losses in the latest period.
While there were no one-time gains or losses in the latest period, there was a one-time gain of #18 million in the 1988 period.while there was no profit this year from discontinued operations, last year they contributed #34 million, before tax.
And last year they contributed #34 million, before tax.there was no profit this year from discontinued operations.
Pretax profit fell 3.7% to #128 million from #133 million and was below analysts' expectations of #130 million to #135 million.shares rose 6 pence to 388 pence in early trading yesterday in London.
Risks from the firms' new "merchant banking" activities are rising.revenue from the industry's traditional business erodes.
The biggest firms still retain the highest ratings on their commercial paper.that Shearson's commercial paper rating could be lowered soon, a move that would reduce Shearson's profit margins on its borrowings and signal trouble ahead for other firms.
A sweeping restructuring of the industry is possible.First Boston, Shearson and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. are likely to have difficulty shoring up their credit standing in months ahead.
Wall Street's new penchant for leveraged buy-outs and junk bonds is resulting in long-term lending commitments that stretch out for months or years.conventional securities financings are structured to be sold quickly.
Merchant banking, where firms commit their own money, "is getting riskier.there's less of it to go around.
Merchant banking, where firms commit their own money, "is getting riskier, and there's less of it to go around.the buy-out business is under pressure "because of the junk bond collapse.
that returns are likely to decline.the volume of junk-bond financings shrinks.
The recent cash squeeze at Campeau Corp., First Boston's most lucrative client of the decade, is proving costly to First Boston.it arranged more than $3 billion of high-yield, high-risk junk financings for Campeau units.
The recent cash squeeze at Campeau Corp., First Boston's most lucrative client of the decade, is proving costly to First Boston because it arranged more than $3 billion of high-yield, high-risk junk financings for Campeau units.a big loan that First Boston made to Ohio Mattress Co. wasn't repaid on time when its $450 million junk financing for a buy-out of the bedding company was withdrawn.
In addition, a big loan that First Boston made to Ohio Mattress Co. wasn't repaid on time.its $450 million junk financing for a buy-out of the bedding company was withdrawn.
These two exposures alone represent a very substantial portion of CS First Boston's equity Total merchant banking exposures are in excess of the firm's equity.CS First Boston benefits from the backing of its largest shareholder, Credit Suisse, Switzerland's third largest bank.
First Boston's reliance in recent years on merchant banking.Shearson has been an aggressive participant in the leveraged buy-out business.
Shearson also has been an aggressive participant in the leveraged buy-out business.its earnings became a major disappointment as its traditional retail, or individual investor, business showed no signs of rebounding from the slump that followed the October 1987 stock market crash.
But its earnings became a major disappointment.its traditional retail, or individual investor, business showed no signs of rebounding from the slump that followed the October 1987 stock market crash.
as its traditional retail, or individual investor, business showed no signs of rebounding from the slump that followed the October 1987 stock market crash.Shearson's listed $2 billion of capital is overstated, according to the rating concerns.
In addition, Shearson's listed $2 billion of capital is overstated, according to the rating concerns.it includes $1.7 billion of goodwill.
that Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. is under review for a possible downgrade.A year ago, Moody's had Shearson under review for possible downgrade.
A Shearson spokesman said the firm isn't worried.Drexel already competes at a disadvantage to its big Wall Street rivals.
A Shearson spokesman said the firm isn't worried.Drexel already competes at a disadvantage to its big Wall Street rivals.
Drexel, meanwhile, already competes at a disadvantage to its big Wall Street rivals.it has a slightly lower commercial paper rating.
The collapse of junk bond prices and the cancellation of many junk bond financings apparently have taken their toll on closely held Drexel, the leading underwriter in that market.The firm has been hit with big financial settlements with the government stemming from its guilty plea to six felonies related to a big insider-trading scandal.
that its earnings performance has diminished this year from previous years.The firm's capital hasn't grown at the same rate as in the past.
We're well positioned with $1.7 billion of capital.as a leading investment and merchant banking firm, the fact that we are no longer subject to the uncertainties and vicissitudes of the retail business is a major plus in our view.
And as a leading investment and merchant banking firm, the fact that we are no longer subject to the uncertainties and vicissitudes of the retail business is a major plus in our view.we've probably been the most aggressive firm on the Street in reducing costs.
Lewis C. Veraldi, the father of the team that created the highly successful Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable cars, retired early.experiencing recent heart problems.
Most recently, Mr. Veraldi, 59 years old, has been vice president of product and manufacturing engineering at Ford Motor Co.he is best known in the auto industry as the creator of a team car-development approach that produced the two midsized cars that were instrumental in helping the No. 2 auto maker record profits in recent years and in enabling the company's Ford division to eclipse General Motors Corp. 's Chevrolet division as the top-selling nameplate in the U.S.
The concept's goal was to eliminate bureaucracy and make Ford's product development more responsive to consumer demands.It was applied to other new-car programs, including those that produced the Ford Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar.
corporate defendants must pay damages.proving that they could not possibly have caused the harm.
corporate defendants must pay damages.proving that they could not possibly have caused the harm.
We can understand and share the compassion that makes judges sometimes wish to offer a kind of Solomonic aid to those who've been hurt.this case is a stark lesson in how the failures of the traditional policy-making process have left the courts as the only forum this country has to debate risk, technology and innovation.
The cases quickly went to court.the mothers of several thousand DES plaintiffs couldn't recall whose brand they used.
and created a market-share test.damages would be assessed against drug makers in the proportion of their share of the original sales.
Drug makers shouldn't be able to duck liability.people couldn't identify precisely which identical drug was used.
Drug makers shouldn't be able to duck liability because people couldn't identify precisely which identical drug was used.courts quickly tumbled down a slippery slope.
that drug makers that could prove Mindy Hymowitz's mother didn't use their pill.must pay their share of any damages.
The ultimate result came in Hymowitz v..Lilly, where the highest New York court expanded the market-share approach for the first time to say that drug makers that could prove Mindy Hymowitz's mother didn't use their pill must still pay their share of any damages.by this reasoning a defendant could be held liable in New York for a bad apple even if he sold all his apples in California.
But by this reasoning a defendant could be held liable in New York for a bad apple.he sold all his apples in California.
Despite the Supreme Court's refusal to hear the case, there are serious constitutional issues of due process and uncompensated takings from the defendants.The big problem is that there's no guarantee that this reasoning will be limited to DES or to drugs.
The California Supreme Court last year reversed direction to make it much harder to win DES cases.the justices saw how all the pharmaceutical litigation has chilled the introduction of new drugs.
Public policy favors the development and marketing of beneficial new drugs.some risks, perhaps serious ones, might accompany their introduction.
Public policy favors the development and marketing of beneficial new drugs.drugs can save lives and reduce pain and suffering.
after the Hymowitz case it's time to sell that company's stock short.any drug maker introduces an anti-miscarriage drug.
after the Hymowitz case, if any drug maker introduces an anti-miscarriage drug "it's time to sell that company's stock short.We know that the tort system is a lousy way to compensate victims anyway.
some win the legal lottery, others get much less.contingency-fee lawyers take a big cut either way.
DES daughters and other victims of drugs would be better off.their cases were taken out of the courts.
to help such victims.protecting the national interest in encouraging new drugs.
Congress could create a compensation program to help such victims while protecting the national interest in encouraging new drugs.a 1986 law that supposedly replaced lawsuits over children's vaccines with a compensation fund has predictably led to even more litigation.
net income in the third quarter jumped 63%.the company had substantially lower extraordinary charges to account for a restructuring program.
net income in the third quarter jumped 63% as the company had substantially lower extraordinary charges to account for a restructuring program.The earnings growth was fueled by the company's ability to cut net financing spending by half to around 15 million guilders.
The earnings growth also was fueled by the company's ability to cut net financing spending by half to around 15 million guilders.substantially lower Dutch corporate tax rates helped the company keep its tax outlay flat relative to earnings growth.
net income in the third quarter jumped 63% as the company had substantially lower extraordinary charges to account for a restructuring program.Sales were little changed at 2.46 billion guilders, compared with 2.42 billion guilders.
Elco Industries Inc. said it expects net income in the year ending June 30, 1990, to fall below a recent analyst's estimate of $1.65 a share.The Rockford, Ill., maker of fasteners said it expects to post sales in the current fiscal year that are "slightly above" fiscal 1989 sales of $155 million.
Investors switched trading focus quickly as they did Tuesday, reflecting uncertainty about long-term commitments to any issue or sector.Speculation sparked buying in certain incentive-backed issues.
Speculation, on the other hand, sparked buying in certain incentive-backed issues.rumors underlying such shares eventually proved untrue.
that institutions would acquire a clearer idea regarding the direction of the market.the U.S. federal funds rate declines to around 8.5%.
that institutions would acquire a clearer idea regarding the direction of the market.and more comfortably participate in active buying.
frequently taken.the dollar is expected to fall or during times of inflation.
which continued to surge on rumors of speculative buying.stimulated by rumors of speculative buying.
Showa Shell gained 20 to 1,570.Mitsubishi Oil rose 50 to 1,500.
Sumitomo Metal Mining fell five yen to 692.Nippon Mining added 15 to 960.
It rose largely throughout the session.posting an intraday low of 2141.7 in the first 40 minutes of trading.
most investor interest was focused on defensive blue-chip stocks, particularly those with limited U.K. exposure.several key blue chips were pushed higher in thin volume because of a technical squeeze among market makers.
Also, several key blue chips were pushed higher in thin volume because of a technical squeeze among market makers.Sterling's firm tone, combined with a steady opening on Wall Street tempted some investors to come back to the market.
Jaguar, a U.K. luxury auto maker being pursued by Ford Motor and General Motors, gained 10 pence (16 cents) a share to close at 879 pence ($13.90).It shed about 7 pence after dealers said the market was disappointed that Ford didn't move to tender a bid for control of the company.
It shed about 7 pence, however.dealers said the market was disappointed that Ford didn't move to tender a bid for control of the company.
the U.K. government's decision Tuesday to waive its protective "golden share" in the auto maker raised prospects of a bidding war between the two U.S. auto giants.the waiver also was seen as a signal that Ford, a major U.K. auto industry employer, was able to gain government acceptance of its bid for control of Jaguar.
the U.K. government's decision Tuesday to waive its protective "golden share" in the auto maker raised prospects of a bidding war between the two U.S. auto giants.But the waiver was seen as a signal that Ford, a major U.K. auto industry employer, was able to gain government acceptance of its bid for control of Jaguar.
Jaguar, a U.K. luxury auto maker being pursued by Ford Motor and General Motors, gained 10 pence (16 cents) a share to close at 879 pence ($13.90)..It shed about 7 pence, however, after dealers said the market was disappointed that Ford didn't move to tender a bid for control of the company.Like Jaguar, B.A.T eased off its highs in afternoon dealings.
the fall in pretax profit was due to the group's recent restructuring and sale of peripheral units.that its remaining businesses are performing well.
Stocks boosted by market-makers shopping to cover book requirements in FT-SE 100 shares.Drug companies in the key index notched gains.
Drug companies in the key index also notched gains.market-makers searched for stock in anticipation of demand due to the sector's defensive qualities.
With lipsticks, liners, lotions and creams, There are still beauty plans left to tackle.as the years go by, it seems That before I paint, I should spackle.
But it seems That before I paint, I should spackle.the years go by.
That I should spackle.I paint.
The company does not feel that it or any of the individuals violated any criminal statute.the company expects full vindication in court.
In October, more people said that present business conditions were "good" than in September.19.6% of consumers contacted believed business conditions will improve in the coming six months, compared with 18.3% in September.
And 19.6% of consumers contacted believed business conditions will improve in the coming six months, compared with 18.3% in September.more people said conditions will worsen in the period.
Unemployment continues at a relatively low level.a low inflation rate has kept the purchasing power of the weekly paycheck reasonably strong.
with fewer households indicating plans to buy cars.more saying they will buy homes and appliances in the coming six months.
Despite a deluge of economic news, the Treasury market remained quiet.the corporate market was abuzz over International Business Machines Corp. 's huge debt offering.
There were so many economic reports.the market didn't care about any of them.
There were so many economic reports but the market didn't care about any of them.the focus turned to other fixed-income markets, corporate and mortgages in particular.
The size of IBM's issue was increased from an originally planned $500 million.money managers and investors scrambled to buy the bonds.
Money managers ranked IBM's offering as the most significant investment-grade sale of the year.large issues of long-term debt by companies with triple-A credit are infrequent.
that orders for manufactured goods were essentially unchanged in September.construction spending was slightly lower.
that the nation's industrial sector is growing very slowly.at all.
that price increases have moderated.economic activity has grown at a sluggish pace in recent weeks.
Among other things, the survey found that manufacturing activity varied considerably across districts and among industries.The Philadelphia and Cleveland districts reported declines in manufacturing activity while the Boston, Dallas and San Francisco banks noted that business expanded.
The Philadelphia and Cleveland districts, for example, reported declines in manufacturing activity.the Boston, Dallas and San Francisco banks noted that business expanded.
The purchasing managers index of economic activity rose in October.it remains below 50%.
A reading below 50% indicates that the manufacturing sector is slowing.a reading above 50% suggests that the industry is expanding.
The Treasury will raise $10 billion in fresh cash by selling $30 billion of securities, including $10 billion of new three-year notes and $10 billion of new 10-year notes.rather than sell new 30-year bonds, the Treasury will issue $10 billion of 29year, nine-month bonds.
the decision to reopen the current benchmark, the 8 1/8% bond due August 2019, is unusual.the issue trades at a premium to its face amount.
the Treasury has no ability to issue new debt of any kind.such action takes places.
In a surprise announcement, the Treasury said it will reopen the outstanding benchmark 30-year bond rather than create a new one for next week's quarterly refunding of the federal debt.Treasury bonds ended modestly higher in quiet trading.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills was essentially unchanged at 7.79%.the rate on six-month bills was slightly lower at 7.52% compared with 7.60% Tuesday.
IBM's $750 million debenture offering dominated activity in the corporate debt market.most investment-grade bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1/8 point higher.
IBM's $750 million debenture offering dominated activity in the corporate debt market.most investment-grade bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1/8 point higher.
that investment-grade bonds posted a total return of 2.7% in October.junk bonds showed a negative return of 1.5%.
Ginnie Mae's 9% issue for November delivery finished at 98 5/8, up 2/32.its 9 1/2% issue at 100 22/32, also up 2/32.
A $114 million issue of health facility revenue bonds from the California Health Facilities Financing Authority was temporarily withdrawn.being tentatively priced by a First Boston Corp. group.
An official for the lead underwriter declined to comment on the reason for the delay.market participants speculated that a number of factors, including a lack of investor interest, were responsible.
that it would be a six billion mark issue.that the last Bund, a 7% issue due October 1999, would be increased by two billion marks.
The rating concern said the textile and clothing company's interest expense exceeds operating profit "by a wide margin.it noted United's estimated after-tax loss of $24 million for the year ended June 30.
Travelers Corp. 's third-quarter net income rose 11%.claims stemming from Hurricane Hugo reduced results $40 million.
Net advanced to $94.2 million, or 89 cents a share, from $85 million, or 83 cents a share, including net realized investment gains of $31 million, up from $10 million a year ago.revenue declined to $3 billion from $3.2 billion.
The insurer's earnings from commercial property/casualty lines fell 59% in the latest quarter.it lost $7.2 million in its personal property/casualty business, compared with earnings of $6.1 million a year ago.
Michelin officials couldn't immediately comment on the referral.they noted the purchase from BTR has already been concluded.
Mr. Dingell's proposal appears to guarantee only an estimated seven-million-ton cut in annual sulfur-dioxide emissions that lead to acid rain.additional cuts could be ordered later.
Mr. Dingell's proposal appears to guarantee only an estimated seven-million-ton cut in annual sulfur-dioxide emissions that lead to acid rain.though additional cuts could be ordered.
sources said the Dingell plan would abandon the president's proposal for a cap on utilities' sulfur-dioxide emissions.final details weren't available.
but despised by utilities.they feared it would limit their growth.
it would limit their growth.It would junk an innovative market-based system for trading emissions credits among polluters.
the Dingell plan would abandon the president's proposal for a cap on utilities' sulfur-dioxide emissions.to offer a cost-sharing mechanism that would help subsidize the clean-up costs for the dirtiest coal-fired utilities in the country.
Although final details weren't available, sources said the Dingell plan would abandon the president's proposal for a cap on utilities' sulfur-dioxide emissions Mr. Dingell's staff was expected to present its acid-rain alternative to other committee members, apparently in an attempt to appease Midwestern lawmakers from high-polluting states who insist on cost-sharing.It isn't clear whether support for the proposal will be broad enough to pose a serious challenge to the White House's acid-rain plan.
it might not win the support of utilities, many in the West, that already have added expensive cleanup equipment or burn cleaner-burning fuels.the new proposal might appeal to the dirtiest utilities.
he would assume Mr. Russell's responsibilities.a successor isn't found this month.
On the Big Board, a "side car" is put into effect.the S&P futures rise or fall 12 points.
a one-hour trading halt takes effect.when trading resumes, the S&P futures fall 30 points from the previous day's close.
If the S&P futures fall 30 points from the previous day's close.trading resumes.
On the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, S&P 500 futures are not allowed to fall further than 12 points from the previous day's close for half an hour..If, when trading resumes, the S&P futures fall 30 points from the previous day's close, a one-hour trading halt takes effect.the reforms allow the Big Board to halt trading for one hour if the Dow Jones Industrial Average falls 250 points, and for two more hours if the Dow slides an additional 150 points on the same day.
the Big Board to halt trading for one hour.the Dow Jones Industrial Average falls 250 points.
and for two more hours.the Dow slides an additional 150 points on the same day.
Most contracts are simply nullified by an opposite trade.they come due.
swapping their stocks for futures.profitable to do so.
Buying or selling baskets of stocks.at the same time executing offsetting trades in stock-index futures or options.
for example, an arbitrager will buy stocks and sell futures.stocks are temporarily "cheaper" than futures.
Traders profit by trying to capture fleeting price discrepancies between stocks and the index futures or options.If stocks are temporarily "cheaper" than futures an arbitrager will buy stocks and sell futures.
For stock indexes, the underlying investment may be a stock-index futures contract or the cash value of a stock index.there are options on the S&P 500 futures contract and on the S&P 100 index.
the application by his Reliance Group Holdings Inc. could signal his interest in helping revive a failed labor-management bid.Mr. Steinberg will make a bid by himself.
Such an application for federal antitrust clearance is necessary for any investor that might seek control.some investors have used such filings to boost the value of their stock holdings, which -- without buying more stock -- they then sold.
to boost the value of their stock holdings.which they sold.
Reliance had already bought and sold UAL stock at a big profit without making an antitrust filing.the collapse Oct. 13 of the $6.79 billion, $300-a-share labor-management buy-out.
and reduced its stake to 4.7%.UAL accepted the bid at prices higher than $282 a share.
Reliance has already sold its entire UAL stake.and wouldn't have any reason to file the application simply to boost the value of its stock.
Market sources said Reliance has already sold its entire UAL stake, and thus wouldn't have any reason to file the application simply to boost the value of its stock.the exact amount of Reliance's current holding hasn't been formally disclosed.
UAL's announcement came.the market closed yesterday.
to be on friendly terms with UAL's Mr. Wolf.any potential acquirer must attempt to reach some kind of accord with the company's employees, primarily its pilots and the powerful machinists' union, which has opposed a takeover.
A.L. Williams Corp. was merged into Primerica Corp., New York.a special meeting of Williams shareholders cleared the transaction.
Primerica will pay about 16.7 million shares, currently valued at almost $472 million, for the rest of Williams.Primerica, as expected acquired certain assets of the agency and assumed certain of its liabilities.
they are meant only to benefit shareholders.the company is on a roll.
This has nothing to do with Marty Ackerman.it is not designed, particularly, to take the company private.
Mr. Edelman declined to specify what prompted the recent moves, saying they are meant only to benefit shareholders when "the company is on a roll." He added, "This has nothing to do with Marty Ackerman and it is not designed, particularly, to take the company private.Mr. Ackerman said the buy-back, and the above-market price paid, prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared.
Rockwell International Corp. reported flat operating earnings for the fourth quarter ended Sept. 30.The aerospace, automotive supply, electronics and printing-press concern indicated that the first half of fiscal 1990 could be rough.
first-half profit certainly would trail the past year's, primarily because of weakness in the heavy-truck and passenger-car markets.if the industrial sector remains relatively stable, Rockwell should be able to recover in the second half and about equal fiscal 1989's operating profit of $630.9 million.
Still Rockwell should be able to recover in the second half and about equal fiscal 1989's operating profit of $630.9 million.the industrial sector remains relatively stable.
a particularly strong showing by the company's electronics segment.pretax electronics earnings soared 12% to $107.9 million from $96.4 million.
For the year, electronics emerged as Rockwell's largest sector in terms of sales and earnings, muscling out aerospace for the first time.which was singled out by the chairman as a positive.
Aerospace earnings sagged 37% for the quarter and 15% for the year, largely due to lower B-1B program profit.The company took hits in the fourth quarters of 1989 and 1988 on a fixed-price weapons-modernization development program -- probably the C-130 gunship, according to analysts.
Personal computer prices for models using the Intel 286 and 386 microprocessors generally have been coming down.chip prices have fallen.
World sugar futures prices soared on rumors that Brazil, a major grower and exporter, might not ship sugar this crop year and next.Prices were boosted by another rumor that Mexico, usually a large producer and exporter, might have to buy a large quantity of sugar.
many remained skeptical about the Brazilian development.traders rushed to buy futures contracts.
which has no limits.which is without restraints.
The July delivery rose its daily permissible limit of 0.50 cent a pound to 14.00 cents.other contract months showed near-limit advances.
that they won't be allowed to export sugar during the current 1989-90 season and the 1990-91 season.it can be used to produce alcohol for automobile fuel.
A shift to producing more alcohol and less sugar had been expected.the latest news, if true, indicates a more drastic shift than had been anticipated.
but the latest news indicates a more drastic shift than had been anticipated.true.
Producers were granted the right earlier this year to ship sugar.the export licenses were expected to have begun to be issued" yesterday.
Producers were granted the right earlier this year to ship sugar and the export licenses were expected to have begun to be issued" yesterday.it is believed that little or no sugar from the 1989-90 crop has been shipped yet.
that little or no sugar from the 1989-90 crop has been shipped yet.the crop year is six months old.
More than a half of all sugar produced in Brazil goes for alcohol production, according to Ms. Ganes.there has been a switch in the past decade to planting of orange trees in areas that were previously used for cane, and this change is being felt now.
Also, there has been a switch in the past decade to planting of orange trees in areas that were previously used for cane.this change is being felt now.
It's the type of nervous atmosphere in which a report can be put out, such as the one saying exports will be suspended.no one can confirm it.
Above all the situation is extremely confused.that the situation in Brazil is very complicated.
On the one hand, Brazil started an ethanol program about 15 years ago to fuel a huge portion of its national fleet of cars and is now committed to this program.It has to weigh the relatively high price of sugar it can earn on the export market in making decisions as to whether to produce sugar or alcohol.
Gasoline futures were mixed to unchanged.the strength in heating oil helped push up crude oil.
Prices closed mostly higher in relatively light trading.farmers continued to withhold their crops from the marketplace in the hope of higher prices to come.
Prices closed mostly higher in relatively light trading as farmers continued to withhold their crops from the marketplace in the hope of higher prices to come.Continued export demand supported prices.
which often buys U.S. grains in quantity.that late Tuesday the Chinese government turned to Britain to buy 500,000 metric tons of wheat.
Continued export demand also supported prices.prices were supported by widespread rumors that the Soviet Union is on the verge of receiving most favored nation status from the U.S.
Buying for the most part carried over from the previous session.traders apparently ignored reports that a Chilean mine strike may have ended almost before it began.
that a Chilean mine strike may have ended.it began.
According to news service reports, most workers at the Disputado mines owned by Exxon Corp. agreed to a new two-year wage contract that includes a 5% increase and other benefits.some workers haven't yet accepted the new contract and are continuing negotiations.
According to news service reports, most workers at the Disputado mines owned by Exxon Corp. agreed to a new two-year wage contract that includes a 5% increase and other benefits.Reuter reported that the Papua-New Guinea government urged its Parliament to extend a state of emergency in copper-rich Bougainville Island for two months.
The parent of Younkers said it will sell a stake in the chain to management and take other steps to reduce its investment in retailing.failing to find a buyer for the chain of Midwestern department stores.
Equitable of Iowa Cos., Des Moines, had been seeking a buyer for the 36-store Younkers chain since June.it was unable to find a buyer willing to pay what it considers "fair value" for Younkers because of recent turmoil in the bond and stock markets and in retailing.
Neither Equus nor Tony Lama gave a reason for the changed offer.Tony Lama couldn't be reached for comment.
Neither Equus nor Tony Lama gave a reason for the changed offer and Tony Lama couldn't be reached for comment.Tony Lama said it would promptly submit the offer to a special committee of the company's board.
No successor was named.Mr. Reupke's duties will be split among three other senior Reuters executives.
There is no business reason for my departure," nor any disagreement over policy, he added.He rejected reports that his departure stemmed from disappointment the general manager's post hadn't also led to a board directorship at the London-based news organization.
I would have chosen the people who are now on the board.I were choosing the people of tomorrow.
I would be very surprised.his departure signals any change in strategy or change in profit expectations.
Peter Holland, 45, deputy general manager, becomes director of corporate affairs.Patrick Mannix, 46, international technical manager, becomes director of group quality programs.
operations had a loss of $5.5 million for the quarter.the loss was magnified by nonrecurring charges totaling $23.5 million and $8.2 million in asset-valuation adjustments that he described as "unusual.
it will record a $7.5 million reserve for its defense group, including a $4.7 million charge related to problems under a fixed-price development contract and $2.8 million in overhead costs that won't be reimbursed.it will write off about $3.5 million in costs related to international exploration leases where exploration efforts have been unsuccessful.
In addition, Hadson said it will write off about $3.5 million in costs related to international exploration leases where exploration efforts have been unsuccessful.The company cited interest costs and amortization of goodwill as factors in the loss.
A lack of enthusiasm with the latest economic data hampered the stock market's bid to extend Tuesday's sharp gains.prices closed slightly higher in sluggish trading.
profit-taking weighed on the market, with blue-chips bearing the brunt of the selling.renewed optimism about the outlook for takeover activity boosted several so-called deal stocks.
The Dow Jones Equity Market Index gained 0.99 to 319.75.the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index went up 0.60 to 188.84.
The October survey of corporate purchasing managers, as expected, provided evidence that economic growth remains subdued.stock prices firmed only modestly in response to the report.
with the index proving somewhat better than expected.the widely anticipated report on October employment scheduled to arrive tomorrow.
But stock prices firmed only modestly in response to the report.and faltered.
We want (stocks) up.if they don't carry we're going to sell them.
but we're going to sell them.they don't carry.
The psychology is still: `We want (stocks) up, but if they don't carry we're going to sell them.Uncertainty about the prospects for further action to curtail stock-index arbitrage, a form of program trading blamed for recent volatility in the market contributed to its lack of direction.
to remain subdued.the market awaits tomorrow's release of the jobs data with the hope that it will point toward a decline in interest rates.
Campbell Soup jumped 3 3/8 to 47 1/8.the resignation of R. Gordon McGovern as president and chief executive officer sparked a revival of rumors that the company could become a takeover target.
Georgia Gulf added 1 3/4 to 51 1/4.NL Industries, controlled by Dallas investor Harold Simmons, offered to acquire the stock it doesn't already own for $50 a share.
which surged 20 1/8 Tuesday.Georgia-Pacific launched a $3.18 billion offer for the company.
Mead rose 3/4 to 39 1/2, Federal Paper Board added 1/2 to 24 3/8.Scott Paper gained 1/2 to 48 3/8.
Mead rose 3/4 to 39 1/2, Federal Paper Board added 1/2 to 24 3/8 and Scott Paper gained 1/2 to 48 3/8.International Paper> fell 7/8 to 48 7/8,>< Champion In< ternational lost 3/8 to 31 1/2 and Louisiana-Pacific dropped 1/8 to 40 1/4.
while International Paper> fell 7/8 to 48 7/8,>< Champion In< ternational lost 3/8 to 31 1/2.Louisiana-Pacific dropped 1/8 to 40 1/4.
Texaco rose 3/4 to 53 3/8.4.4 million shares changed hands.
Freeport-McMoRan Energy Partners will be liquidated.shares of the new company distributed to the partnership's unitholders.
Unitholders will receive two additional 55 cents-a-unit distribution payments.the trust is liquidated in early 1990.
that fiscal fourth-quarter profit from continuing operations will be significantly below last year's $25 million.that full-year profit from continuing operations will be far below last year's $148 million.
that full-year profit from continuing operations will be far below last year's $148 million.that net for the year ending Nov. 30 will exceed last fiscal year's net of $70 million, or $2.19 a share, primarily because of $200 million in gains from sales of discontinued operations.
It said insurance profit reflected a $6 million loss from Hurricane Hugo.It estimated that losses from the Oct. 17 earthquake in California would be no more than $6 million, and would be included in fourth-quarter results.
it sold 750,000 shares of its common stock to the McAlpine family interests, for $1 million, or $1.35 a share.The McAlpine family lent to Meridian National $500,000.
Ratners Group PLC, a fast-growing, acquisition-minded London-based jeweler, raised its price for Seattle-based specialty jeweler Weisfield's Inc. to $57.50 a share, or $62.1 million, from $50 a share, or $55 million.another concern said it would be prepared to outbid Ratners's initial offer.
Ratners Group PLC, a fast-growing, acquisition-minded London-based jeweler, raised its price for Seattle-based specialty jeweler Weisfield's Inc. to $57.50 a share, or $62.1 million, from $50 a share, or $55 million.another concern said it would be prepared to outbid Ratners's initial offer.
The sweetened offer has acceptances from more than 50% of Weisfield's shareholders.it is scheduled for completion by Dec. 10.
Valley Federal Savings & Loan Association took an $89.9 million charge.it reported a third-quarter loss of $70.7 million, or $12.09 a share.
The bulk of the pretax charge is a $62 million write-off of capitalized servicing at the mobile home financing subsidiary.Valley Federal added $18 million to realestate loan reserves and eliminated $9.9 million of good will.
to achieve near record earnings in 1990.these charges and assuming no dramatic fluctuation in interest rates.
First of America said some of the managers will take other jobs with First of America.it said that severance payments to those executives not staying with the company will reduce First of America's operating results for 1989 by $3 million to $4 million, or 15 cents to 20 cents a share.
Under the plan, unsecured creditors, who are owed about $430 million, would receive about $92 million, or 21 cents for each dollar they are owed.they will receive stock in the reorganized company.
The Avon, Conn., company's stock hit a high in 1983.it unveiled its Adam home computer.
The Avon, Conn., company's stock hit a high in 1983 after it unveiled its Adam home computer.the product was plagued with glitches and the company's fortunes plunged.
but the product was plagued with glitches.the company's fortunes plunged.
and the company's fortunes plunged.Coleco bounced back with the introduction of the Cabbage Patch dolls, whose sales hit $600 million in 1985.
But Coleco bounced back with the introduction of the Cabbage Patch dolls.as the craze died, Coleco failed to come up with another winner and filed for bankruptcy-law protection in July 1988.
But Coleco failed to come up with another winner and filed for bankruptcy-law protection in July 1988.the craze died.
Ortega indicated that renewed U.S. military aid to the Contras could thwart the balloting.he reaffirmed support for the country's Feb. 25 elections.
East German leader Krenz called the protests in his country a "good sign.The Communist Party chief, in Moscow for talks with Soviet officials said East Germany would follow Gorbachev's restructuring plans.
Thousands of East Germans fled to Czechoslovakia.the East Berlin government lifted travel restrictions.
Thousands of East Germans fled to Czechoslovakia after the East Berlin government lifted travel restrictions.a Communist official for the first time said the future of the Berlin Wall could be open to discussion.
anti-abortionists oppose the research.researchers believe such transplants could help treat diseases like Alzheimer's.
Gunmen in Lebanon assassinated a Saudi Arabian Embassy employee.the pro-Iranian Islamic Jihad took responsibility for the slaying to avenge the beheading of 16 terrorists by Riyadh's government in September.
Gunmen in Lebanon assassinated a Saudi Arabian Embassy employee, and the pro-Iranian Islamic Jihad took responsibility for the slaying to avenge the beheading of 16 terrorists by Riyadh's government in September.in Beirut, a Moslem group vowed to kill Americans if the U.S. implements a policy to seize suspects abroad.
to kill Americans.the U.S. implements a policy to seize suspects abroad.
the country's recession had ended.the economy was growing again.
The location was disclosed.the U.S. began planning the issues to be discussed at the Dec. 2-3 tete-a-tete.
the move would result in a after-tax charge of less than $4 million to be spread over the next three quarters.for the first nine months, Xerox earned $492 million, or $4.55 a share, on revenue of $12.97 billion.
Earnings at Xerox's financial-services operations actually rose slightly.that was largely because capital gains at Crum & Forster offset Hurricane Hugo payments and the reserves set up to cover future payments.
but that was.capital gains at Crum & Forster offset Hurricane Hugo payments and the reserves set up to cover future payments.
Property/casualty insurance has been a tough business in recent quarters.pricing has been cutthroat and natural disasters such as Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake have resulted in huge payments.
as pricing has been cutthroat.natural disasters such as Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake have resulted in huge payments.
Domestic sales of construction machinery, such as power shovels and bulldozers rose to 142.84 billion yen from 126.15 billion yen.Demand from Europe and Southeast Asia grew.
Demand from Europe and Southeast Asia also grew.due to increasing production at local plants, overseas sales edged down 2.8%.
Factory orders and construction outlays were largely flat in September.manufacturing shrank further in October.
ECONOMIC GROWTH APPEARS to be leveling off, latest reports suggest.many economists aren't predicting a recession anytime soon.
The Fed is coming under pressure to cut short-term interest rates due to the apparent slowing of the economy.it isn't clear yet whether the central bank will make such a move.
The Chicago Merc plans an additional "circuit breaker" to stem sharp drops in the market.Big Board Chairman Phelan said he would support SEC halts of program trading during market crises but not any revival of a "collar" on trading.
but will delay the auction.Congress quickly raises the debt ceiling.
Bears have targeted Columbia's stock because of the thrift's exposure to the shaky junk market.some investors fault Mr. Spiegel's life style.
Columbia stock recently hit 4 1/8 on rumors that Mr. Spiegel would take the thrift private.reaching 11 3/4 earlier this year.
Columbia stock recently hit 4 1/8, after reaching 11 3/4 earlier this year on rumors that Mr. Spiegel would take the thrift private.Columbia's huge third-quarter markdown of its junk portfolio to $4.4 billion wasn't enough, meaning another markdown could be coming.
Columbia stock recently hit 4 1/8, after reaching 11 3/4 earlier this year on rumors that Mr. Spiegel would take the thrift private..Moreover, junk professionals think Columbia's huge third-quarter markdown of its junk portfolio to $4.4 billion wasn't enough, meaning another markdown could be coming.in recent days, Columbia has edged up.
Columbia's Southern California branches are highly salable.the thrift has $458 million of shareholders equity underlying its assets.
That's almost $10 of equity for each Columbia share, including convertible preferred shares.more junk markdowns would reduce the cushion.
Other big common holders are Carl Lindner's American Financial, investor Irwin Jacobs and Pacific Financial Research.the latter cut its stake this summer.
Mr. Spiegel is mulling such a plan to mitigate Columbia's junk problems.many problems would attend a restructuring of Columbia.
that the thrift might restructure.they were interested in creating a separate unit to hold Columbia's junk bonds and perhaps do merchant banking.
Columbia won't comment on all the speculation.like other thrifts, it's expected to seek regulators' consent to create a distinct junk-bond entity.
to write down their junk to market value.sell the bonds over five years.
New rules force thrifts to write down their junk to market value, then sell the bonds over five years.if Columbia could keep its junk bonds separate from the thrift till they mature -- at full value, unless the issuer goes bust or restructures -- the junk portfolio might do all right.
But the junk portfolio might do all right.Columbia could keep its junk bonds separate from the thrift till they mature -- at full value.
if Columbia could keep its junk bonds separate from the thrift at full value.they mature.
But the junk portfolio might do all right.the issuer goes bust or restructures.
Columbia, a longtime Drexel client, won't provide current data on its junk.its 17 big junk holdings at year end showed only a few bonds that have been really battered.
These were Allied Stores, Western Union Telegraph, Gillett Holdings, SCI Television and Texas Air.many other bonds in Columbia's portfolio also have lost value.
These were Allied Stores, Western Union Telegraph, Gillett Holdings, SCI Television and Texas Air.though many other bonds in Columbia's portfolio have lost value.
Possibly offsetting that, Columbia recently estimated it has unrealized gains on publicly traded equity investments of more than $70 million.It hopes for ultimate gains of as much as $300 million on equity investments in buy-outs and restructurings.
Columbia might be broken up.Mellon Bank was split into a good bank and a bad bank.
Columbia might be broken up, as Mellon Bank was split into a good bank and a bad bank.Columbia's good bank would be a regulated thrift, while the bad bank would be a private investment company.
But Columbia's good bank would be a regulated thrift.the bad bank would be a private investment company.
Columbia's thrift might be capitalized at, say $300 million, and shopped to a commercial bank that wants a California presence.the bad bank with the junk bonds -- and some capital -- might be spun off to Columbia shareholders, including Mr. Spiegel.
Columbia's thrift might be capitalized at, say $300 million, and shopped to a commercial bank that wants a California presence.the bad bank with the junk bonds -- and some capital -- might be spun off to Columbia shareholders, including Mr. Spiegel.
Meanwhile, the bad bank with the junk bonds -- and some capital -- might be spun off to Columbia shareholders, including Mr. Spiegel.who might have a new career.
It isn't clear how much a restructuring would help Columbia stockholders.the concept is workable.
Of course, regulators would have to approve Columbia's reorganization.some investment bankers say a restructuring isn't feasible while the SEC still is scrutinizing Mr. Spiegel's past junk-bond trades.
a restructuring isn't feasible.the SEC still is scrutinizing Mr. Spiegel's past junk-bond trades.
that it has filed patent applications "on a large number of different BMP proteins.the patent on BMP-1 is the first it has received.
The Bush administration's nomination of Clarence Thomas to a seat on the federal appeals court here received a blow this week when the American Bar Association gave Mr. Thomas only a "qualified" rating, rather than "well qualified.the administration isn't worried about the ABA rating.
The ABA gives a "qualified" rating to nominees it believes would perform "satisfactorily" on the bench.the lawyers' association gives a "well qualified" rating to those "regarded as one of the best available for the vacancy.
to focus on its core metals trading, processing and plant engineering activities.shedding peripheral units.
the U.S. would assess penalty duties on the imports.both agencies find violations of the U.S. trade law.
they couldn't estimate the size of the charge.they determine which employees, and how many, will participate in the retirement plan.
Upjohn officials said they couldn't estimate the size of the charge until they determine which employees, and how many, will participate in the retirement plan.the pharmaceutical company said it "anticipates the long-term savings resulting from the plan's implementation will more than offset short-term costs.
it will offer an early retirement package to as many as 1,100 employees in a cost-cutting move expected to result in a fourth-quarter charge.Upjohn is offering a one-time retirement bonus equal to six months of base pay.
it will offer an early retirement package to as many as 1,100 employees in a cost-cutting move expected to result in a fourth-quarter charge.some analysts questioned how much of an impact the retirement package will have, because few jobs will end up being eliminated.
But some analysts questioned how much of an impact the retirement package will have.few jobs will end up being eliminated.
According to Upjohn's estimates, only 50% to 60% of the 1,100 eligible employees will take advantage of the plan.Upjohn estimated that about 50% of the employees who leave for early retirement may be replaced.
According to Upjohn's estimates, only 50% to 60% of the 1,100 eligible employees will take advantage of the plan..Upjohn further estimated that about 50% of the employees who leave for early retirement may be replaced.Upjohn will likely trim only about 275 to 350 of its more than 21,000 jobs world-wide.
mindful of accepting anything of value from those I was writing about, I declined.offered a free trip from the Bronx, Wedtech's home, to Washington, D.C., by one of Wedtech's principals.
Wedtech didn't really get rolling until 1975.started in 1965.
that Mr. Mariotta still could qualify as a minority person.of Italian ancestry.
although of Italian ancestry.that Mr. Mariotta could qualify as a minority person since he was born in Puerto Rico.
that, although of Italian ancestry, Mr. Mariotta still could qualify as a minority person.he was born in Puerto Rico.
Instead of 50/50 it became, on paper only, two-thirds Mariotta, one-third Neuberger.they were in the program and off to the races.
Wedtech was located in the South Bronx, a blighted area, made famous by Jimmy Carter in his 1976 presidential campaign.being a "minority-owned company.
it sought and received assistance from organized crime.necessary.
you received not just cash in a bag, but equity.you were especially helpful in a corrupt scheme.
you found yourself out in the cold, a fate that eventually befell Mr. Mariotta, the firm's semiliterate "minority" person.you were not an effective crook.
Bribe by bribe, Mr. Sternberg and his co-author, Matthew C. Harrison Jr., lead us along the path Wedtech traveled, from its inception as a small manufacturing company to the status of full-fledged defense contractor, entrusted with the task of producing vital equipment for the Army and Navy.despite the sensational nature of the revelations and the breezy, easy-to-read tabloid writing style, "Feeding Frenzy" often falls short of gripping reading.
leaving gold in the street.and expressing surprise when thieves walk by to scoop it up.
and then expressing surprise.thieves walk by to scoop it up.
They are our version of the East bloc's Nomenklatura.they have absolutely no wish to see anything change.
How many government programs and policies exist.they line the pockets of political insiders.
the new company will open talks with state-appointed receivers to buy or lease Waertsilae Marine's shipyard facilities.its ownership is finalized.
Subcontractors will be offered a settlement.a swift transition to new management is expected to avert an exodus of skilled workers from Waertsilae Marine's two big shipyards.
it plans to sell most of its psychiatric and drug abuse facilities in California and some other assets to pay its debt and provide working capital.the company has replaced its president and chief executive.
in the continuing deterioration of the company's operations.it attempted to conclude the reorganization during the past four months.
Comprehensive Care had agreed to be acquired by closely held First Hospital Corp. of Norfolk, Va.the sale sputtered almost from the beginning and finally collapsed last week.
but the sale sputtered almost from the beginning.and collapsed last week.
Its cereal division realized higher operating profit on volume increases.but spent more on promotion.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
The record corn-buying binge by the Soviet Union is causing serious bottlenecks in the U.S. grain pipeline.that corn prices might gyrate this month as exporters scrounge to find enough of the crop to meet their obligations to the Soviets.
that corn prices might gyrate this month.exporters scrounge to find enough of the crop to meet their obligations to the Soviets.
which would be a strain in most years.it is particularly difficult this autumn because of low water levels on the Mississippi River.
In a few weeks, many barges probably won't be able to operate fully loaded south of St. Louis.the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is beginning to reduce the flow of the Missouri River.
Barge rates on the Mississippi River sank yesterday on speculation that widespread rain this week in the Midwest might temporarily alleviate the situation.the Army Corps of Engineers expects the river level to continue falling this month.
At St. Louis, the water level of the Mississippi River is already 6.5 feet below normal.it could drop an additional 2.5 feet when the flow of the Missouri River is slowed.
and it could drop an additional 2.5 feet.the flow of the Missouri River is slowed.
Corn prices have been sluggish this fall despite the huge Soviet orders.the harvest has allowed farmers to rebuild the stockpiles depleted by the 1988 drought.
Corn prices have been sluggish this fall despite the huge Soviet orders.that prices might jump in some regions as U.S. exporters try to gather the corn they are obligated to deliver.
that prices might jump in some regions.U.S. exporters try to gather the corn they are obligated to deliver.
they have more than enough storage space for their new crop.the drought reduced U.S. stockpiles.
they have more than enough storage space for their new crop.that permits them to wait for prices to rise.
and that permits them to wait for prices to rise.In parts of Iowa some grain elevators are offering farmers $2.15 a bushel for corn..Many farmers probably wouldn't sell until prices rose at least 20 cents a bushel.
Many farmers probably wouldn't sell.prices rose at least 20 cents a bushel.
Many farmers probably wouldn't sell until prices rose at least 20 cents a bushel.It isn't clear who would win a waiting game.
that nearly one-fifth of the harvest will still be in storage before the 1990 corn harvest begins.U.S. corn stockpiles shrank by roughly half in the wake of the drought.
Although U.S. corn stockpiles shrank by roughly half in the wake of the drought.that nearly one-fifth of the harvest will be in storage before the 1990 corn harvest begins.
that nearly one-fifth of the harvest will still be in storage.the 1990 corn harvest begins.
The public is buying the market.in reality there is plenty of grain to be shipped.
it is possible for exporters to sidestep the Mississippi River by shipping a larger-than-normal amount of corn by train to the port.much of this country's export corn goes to New Orleans by barge.
it is possible for exporters to sidestep the Mississippi River by shipping a larger-than-normal amount of corn by train to the port.Ports in the Great Lakes and Atlantic Coast can relieve pressure on New Orleans.
Ports in the Great Lakes and Atlantic Coast can also relieve pressure on New Orleans.One railroad is already increasing its grain hauling service from Indiana to Baltimore.
The public is buying the market when in reality there is plenty of grain to be shipped.it isn't clear that the Soviet Union will stay on its record buying pace.
The Soviet Union usually begins buying U.S. crops earlier in the fall.its purchases apparently were delayed by a reorganization of its agricultural bureaucracy as well as budget problems.
Crude oil futures prices increased in moderate trading.much of the action was in heating oil.
Futures prices eased.increased stability and strength came into the securities markets.
Precious metals, gold in particular, currently are being influenced more by stock market gyrations than the dollar according to William O'Neill, vice president of research at Elders Futures in New York.traders seek greater investment stability.
Silver and platinum were even weaker.Silver is under pressure of "extremely high" inventories in warehouses of the Commodity Exchange.
Futures prices partially recovered Monday's declines.Chilean miners voted to strike.
Futures prices partially recovered Monday's declines because Chilean miners voted to strike.that inherent in all metal markets was a sympathetic reaction to stocks.
In the case of copper the upbeat mood of stocks was reflected in demand for futures contracts.a stronger economy means greater buying interest for the metal.
In the case of copper the upbeat mood of stocks was reflected in demand for futures contracts.contributing to the firmness in copper was a report by Chicago purchasing agents.
A reading below 50% generally indicates a slowing in the industrial sector of the economy.a reading above 50% points to expansion.
The Purchasing Management Association of Chicago's October index rose to 51.6% after three previous months of readings below 50%.that the October survey of the National Association of Purchasing Management would show a reading above 50%.
USX Corp. posted a 23% drop in third-quarter profit.improved oil results failed to offset weakness in steel and natural gas operations.
The recent quarter includes pretax gains of $98 million from asset sales.like gains in the year-earlier quarter totaled $61 million.
while like gains in the year-earlier quarter totaled $61 million.In the 1988 period, USX had a $71 million after-tax gain from a tax dispute settlement.
when the company was riding an industrywide boom in demand and pricing.third-quarter operating profit fell 14%.
However, third-quarter operating profit fell 14%.USX sold sizable chunks of its diversified and steel segments, eliminating income from those operations.
as USX sold sizable chunks of its diversified and steel segments, eliminating income from those operations.Among segments that continue to operate the company's steel division continued to suffer from soft demand for its tubular goods serving the oil industry and other markets.
that a downturn in the appliance industry, coupled with sluggish automotive sales, hurt USX results.USX exports more than other steelmakers, and the overseas market has been under more severe pricing pressure.
Moreover, USX exports more than other steelmakers.the overseas market has been under more severe pricing pressure.
In the steel division, operating profit dropped 11% to $85 million.USX fared better than other major steelmakers, earning more per ton of steel shipped than either Bethlehem Steel Corp. or Inland Steel Industries Inc.
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, USX shares closed up $1.25, at $34.625.the reported earnings exceeded projections by some analysts who hadn't expected as great a volume of asset sales.
as the reported earnings exceeded projections by some analysts who hadn't expected as great a volume of asset sales.The rise in the stock's price may reflect the fact that USX's steel segment fared better than some other steelmakers'.
USX may have received orders lost by competitors who were involved in labor contracts earlier this year.USX appeared to sell a richer mix of steel products, such as the more profitable pipe and galvanized coated sheet, than lower-priced structural goods.
The Texas Oil & Gas division continues to operate in the red.losses narrowed to $9 million from $15 million.
USX would be worth more.broken up into steel and energy segments.
A White House spokesman said last week that the president is considering declaring that the Constitution implicitly gives him the authority for a line-item veto to provoke a test case.the two legal experts, responding to an inquiry by Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), wrote in a joint letter that the president "lacks the constitutional authority to exercise a line-item veto.
Mr. Kurland is a conservative.Mr. Tribe is a liberal.
the Constitution authorizes the president to veto entire bills, not partial measures.the first appropriations bill passed 200 years ago covered many different items, and there was no discussion of a line-item veto.
the first appropriations bill passed 200 years ago covered many different items.there was no discussion of a line-item veto.
Moreover, they said the first appropriations bill passed 200 years ago covered many different items, and there was no discussion of a line-item veto.They said that more than a dozen presidents have called for line-item veto authority since the Civil War, and "all have shared the view that such lawmaking power is beyond the reach" of the president.
that more than a dozen presidents have called for line-item veto authority since the Civil War.all have shared the view that such lawmaking power is beyond the reach" of the president.
that he supports legislation to give the president line-item veto power.that it would be a "reckless course of action" for President Bush to claim the authority without congressional approval.
The new "social choice" fund will shun securities of companies linked to South Africa, nuclear power and in some cases, Northern Ireland.excluded will be investments in companies with "significant" business stemming from weapons manufacture, alcoholic beverages or tobacco.
The bond fund will invest in high-grade or medium-grade bonds, mortgages or asset-backed securities, including as much as 15% in foreign securities.The fund might buy and sell futures and options contracts, subject to approval by the New York State Insurance Department.
or receive cash from the funds.their jobs are terminated.
Solo woodwind players have to be creative.they want to work a lot.
Solo woodwind players have to be creative if they want to work a lot.their repertoire and audience appeal are limited.
He commissions and splendidly interprets fearsome contemporary scores and does some conducting.he doesn't have to play the same Mozart and Strauss concertos over and over again.
Today, the pixie-like clarinetist has mostly dropped the missionary work.a touch of the old Tashi still survives.
Just the thing for the Vivaldi-at-brunch set, the yuppie audience that has embraced New Age as its very own easy listening.you can't dismiss Mr. Stoltzman's music or his motives as merely commercial and lightweight.
He believes in what he plays.he plays superbly.
that his new album, "Inner Voices," had just been released, that his family was in the front row.that it was his mother's birthday.
and that it was his mother's birthday.he was going to play her favorite tune from the record.
He launched into Saint-Saens's "The Swan" from "Carnival of the Animals," a favorite encore piece for cellists, with lovely, glossy tone and no bite.he offered the second movement from Saint-Saens's Sonata for Clarinet, a whimsical, puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the Stoltzman personality.
Then he offered the second movement from Saint-Saens's Sonata for Clarinet, a whimsical, puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the Stoltzman personality.to show that he could play fast as well.
Then, as if to show that he could play fast as well, he offered the second movement from Saint-Saens's Sonata for Clarinet, a whimsical, puckish tidbit that reflected the flip side of the Stoltzman personality.so it went through the first half: an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces, none longer than five minutes, none that would disturb or challenge a listener.
Mr. Stoltzman tied the composer in by proclaiming him "the great improviser of the 18th century.and built on the image by joining with Mr. Douglas in some Bach two-part inventions.
and then built on the image by joining with Mr. Douglas in some Bach two-part inventions.the two chanted and chortled their way through some murderous polyrhythms.
the two then chanted and chortled their way through some murderous polyrhythms.and with Mr. Gomez, soared and improvised on the composer's tight "Bebop Etudes.
And so it went through the first half: an ingeniously chosen potpourri of pieces, none longer than five minutes, none that would disturb or challenge a listener.The end of the first half brought what the standing-room-only crowd seemed to be waiting for: the pop singer Judy Collins.
Glamorous and pure-voiced as ever, Ms. Collins sang Joni Mitchell's "For Free" -- about an encounter with a street-corner clarinetist, to which Mr. Stoltzman contributed a clarinet obligatto -- and Mr. Douglas's lush setting of a Gaelic blessing, "Deep Peace.Deep Peace" featured a slide show of lovely but predictable images of clouds, beaches, deserts, sunsets, etc.
It was all too mellow to be believed.they probably would have gotten away with it, had they not felt compelled to add Ms. Collins's signature tune, "Amazing Grace," and ask for audience participation.
Was this why some of the audience departed before or during the second half.was it because Ms. Collins had gone.
Was this why some of the audience departed before or during the second half.was it because Ms. Collins had gone.
Or was it.Ms. Collins had gone.
Either way it was a pity.Mr. Stolzman offered the most substantial music of the evening just after intermission: Steve Reich's "New York Counterpoint," one of a series of Reich works that juxtapose a live performer with recorded tracks of his or her own playing.
He warned us in advance that "New York Counterpoint" lasts 11 1/2 minutes.He unfortunately illustrated this intricate, jazzy tapestry with Mr. Pearson's images, this time of geometric or repeating objects, in a kitschy mirroring of the musical structure that was thoroughly distracting from Mr. Reich's piece and Mr. Stoltzman's elegant execution of it.
It was enjoyable to hear accomplished jazz without having to sit in a smoke-filled club.like the first half, much of it was easy to take and ultimately forgettable.
Managers and presenters insist that chamber music concerts are a hard sell.can audiences really enjoy them only if the music is purged of threatening elements, served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals.
but can audiences really enjoy them.the music is purged of threatening elements, served up in bite-sized morsels and accompanied by visuals.
It was not an unpleasant evening, certainly, thanks to the high level of performance, the compositional talents of Mr. Douglas, and the obvious sincerity with which Mr. Stoltzman chooses his selections.it was neither deep nor lasting: light entertainment that was no substitute for an evening of Brahms.
that he rarely gave his blessing to the claptrap that passes for "consensus" in various international institutions.he liberated the U.S. from one of the world's most corrupt organizations -- UNESCO.
In fact, he liberated the U.S. from one of the world's most corrupt organizations -- UNESCO.the remaining members have been desperate for the United States to rejoin this dreadful group.
Now UNESCO apologists are lobbying President Bush to renege on President Reagan's decision to depart.we can think of many reasons to stay out for the foreseeable future and well beyond.
The U.S., along with Britain and Singapore, left the agency.its anti-Western ideology, financial corruption and top leadership got out of hand.
when several of his top aides were uncovered as KGB plants and ejected from France.when a mysterious office fire was set just before Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds.
The personal antics of agency Director Amadou-Mahtar M'Bow drew much attention.and a mysterious office fire was set just before Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds.
and when a mysterious office fire was set.Congress sent accountants to trace U.S. funds.
Mr. M'Bow was an extreme case.even his replacement, the more personally genial Spanish biochemist Federico Mayor, has had little success at achieving reforms.
Glasnost may be partly responsible.The exaggerated ideological approach undermined tolerance intrinsic to UNESCO.
Soviets remain in charge of education programs, a former head of an African military tribunal for executions is in charge of culture.a hard-line Polish communist in exile directs the human-rights and peace division.
that seems to get muddled.delivered through U.N. organizations.
that seems to get muddled.delivered through U.N. organizations.
This can have its purposes at times.there's no reason to cloud the importance and allure of Western concepts of freedom and justice.
that prevents the production of pollen.The gene can prevent a plant from fertilizing itself.
The gene thus can prevent a plant from fertilizing itself.Such so-called male-sterile plants can be fertilized by pollen from another strain of the plant.
Such so-called male-sterile plants can then be fertilized by pollen from another strain of the plant.producing hybrid seed.
That's.the male part, the tassel, and the female, the ear, are some distance apart on the corn plant.
They sow a row of male-fertile plants nearby.which pollinate the male-sterile plants.
The first hybrid corn seeds produced using this mechanical approach were introduced in the 1930s.they yielded as much as 20% more corn than naturally pollinated plants.
In China, a great number of workers are engaged in pulling out the male organs of rice plants using tweezers.one-third of rice produced in that country is grown from hybrid seeds.
The sterilizing gene is expressed.the pollen is about to develop.
The sterilizing gene is expressed just before the pollen is about to develop.it deactivates the anthers of every flower in the plant.
At Plant Genetic Systems, researchers have isolated a pollen-inhibiting gene that can be inserted in a plant to confer male sterility.The researchers pulled off a second genetic engineering trick in order to get male-sterile plants in large enough numbers to produce a commercial hybrid seed crop.
They attached a second gene, for herbicide resistance, to the pollen-inhibiting gene.Both genes are inserted into a few greenhouse plants.
Both genes are then inserted into a few greenhouse plants.which are pollinated and allowed to mature and produce seed.
that half of the plants springing from these greenhouse-produced seeds will be male sterile and herbicide resistant.half will be male fertile and herbicide susceptible.
that the genetic approach will obviate the need for mechanical emasculation of anthers.virtually all corn seeds currently planted are hybrids.
One technique developed by some of these companies involves a chemical spray supposed to kill only a plant's pollen.there have been problems with chemical sprays damaging plants' female reproductive organs and concern for the toxicity of such chemical sprays to humans, animals and beneficial insects.
But there have been problems with chemical sprays damaging plants' female reproductive organs and concern for the toxicity of such chemical sprays to humans, animals and beneficial insects.the company's chemical spray overcomes these problems and is "gentle on the female organ.
That's.pollination is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton.
because pollination is more complex and involves insects as carriers in crops such as cotton.easy in corn because the carrier is wind.
while easy in corn.the carrier is wind.
you can sterilize.to successfully pollinate the plant.
Plant Genetic's success in creating genetically engineered male steriles doesn't automatically mean it would be simple to create hybrids in all crops.he is negotiating with Plant Genetic to acquire the technology to try breeding hybrid cotton.
Unwilling to put up new money for New Zealand.those debts are repaid.
Barred by its budget law from making any new domestic bond issues, Wellington's Debt Management Office had been casting abroad to raise the 3 billion New Zealand dollars (US$1.76 billion) to NZ$4 billion it needs to come up with by the end of its fiscal year next June 30.With Japan's cash-flush banks aligned against it raising money may be difficult.
Not only can they block Wellington from raising money in Japan.as the largest underwriters in the Eurobond market, they might be able to scuttle borrowings there, too.
I think it would be irresponsible.I am not about to be blackmailed by Japanese banks or any other international interests.
Both sides are jealously guarding their turf.relations have been at a flashpoint for months.
The banks badly want to break into all aspects of the securities business.the securities companies -- most of them smaller than the banks -- are seeking access only to limited kinds of banking that wouldn't open them to the full brunt of competition from the banks.
The banks badly want to break into all aspects of the securities business.the securities companies -- most of them smaller than the banks -- are seeking access only to limited kinds of banking that wouldn't open them to the full brunt of competition from the banks.
Nomura, the world's biggest securities company largely by virtue of its protected home field, and Industrial Bank of Japan, Japan's most innovative and aggressive bank in capital markets abroad, captain the opposing sides.their suspicions of each other run deep.
Nomura started a credit-card venture with American Express Co. that allowed cardholders to use their Nomura securities accounts like a bank account, attracting the wrath of banks.Industrial Bank of Japan started up a London securities subsidiary that sells Japanese stocks to non-Japanese institutions overseas, a move that stirred the anger of the stock brokerage firms.
Babies, kiddies," growls their manager -- a fellow named Earl Weaver, who, in a different time, handled four World Series teams and now handles the Gold Coast Suns. "Old-time kiddies," he says.for the next few months, these boys of summers long past are going to be reveling in an Indian summer of the soul.
it's time for a new season to begin.the baseball season is officially over.
there is one more.the baby-faced heroes of today reclaim these ballparks for spring training.
he had the idea last January.lying on a beach in Australia.
730 responded.he sent letters offering 1,250 retired major leaguers the chance of another season.
who are eligible at 32.life behind the plate is so rough.
Others, just released from the majors, hope the senior league will be their bridge back into the big-time.as they hurl fireballs that smolder rather than burn, and relive old duels in the sun, it's clear that most are there to make their fans cheer again or recapture the camaraderie of seasons past or prove to themselves and their colleagues that they still have it -- or something close to it.
But it's clear that most are there to make their fans cheer again or recapture the camaraderie of seasons past or prove to themselves and their colleagues that they still have it -- or something close to it.they hurl fireballs that smolder rather than burn, and relive old duels in the sun.
But it's clear that most are there to make their fans cheer again or recapture the camaraderie of seasons past or prove to themselves and their colleagues that they still have it -- or something close to it.they hurl fireballs that smolder rather than burn, and relive old duels in the sun.
that he "never looked back.he left baseball in 1978.
It doesn't replace pitching in the majors.it proves to me that I would have been able to play if I'd stayed healthy.
that I would have been able to play.I'd stayed healthy.
These days he hustles to house-painting jobs in his Chevy pickup.training with the Tropics.
he vividly recounts getting the Red Sox's Carl Yastrzemski to pop out to end the 1975 World Series, and repeating the feat against the Yankees' Roy White in 1976.sipping a beer after practice.
Someone will get a heart attack.that will be the end of the whole story.
Some of the game's reigning philosophers dislike the idea of middle-aged men attempting a young man's sport.the ballplayers disagree.
No one has worked out the players' average age.most appear to be in their late 30s.
Some have been training for months; others only recently left active status.there's pride.
sweat dotting his brow.he prepares for some practice swings.
But the ballplayers disagree.one can't help wonder whether the game will be just a little bit slower.
At the weatherbeaten Pompano Beach municipal stadium, Mr. Blair, the 45-year-old former Oriole, knows his power isn't what it used to be.he adjusts.
He's not thinking about home runs anymore, just base hits.how sweet it is," he says.
At the weatherbeaten Pompano Beach municipal stadium, Mr. Blair, the 45-year-old former Oriole, knows his power isn't what it used to be.don't expect many complete games by pitchers -- perhaps three out of 288.
it's no problem.you know how to slide.
And don't expect many complete games by pitchers -- perhaps three out of 288 Expect "tricky" stuff from pitchers Expect brushbacks but no beanballs Even expect stolen bases.expect slower fastballs.
I won't be throwing 90 mph.I will throw 80-plus.
Stuffing a wad of Red Man into his cheek, he admits the fastball he brought into the majors in 1955 has become a slowball.he isn't worried.
Hani Zayadi was appointed president and chief executive officer of this financially troubled department store chain.Mr. Zayadi was president and chief operating officer of Zellers Inc., a retail chain that is owned by Toronto-based Hudson's Bay Co., Canada's largest department store operator.
Statistics Canada said service-industry output in August rose 0.4% from July.Statistics Canada reported that its industrial-product price index dropped 0.2% in September, its third consecutive monthly decline.
Separately, Statistics Canada reported that its industrial-product price index dropped 0.2% in September, its third consecutive monthly decline.It reported a 2.6% decline in its raw-materials price index for September.
it will buy back as much as 10% of its 2.4 million shares outstanding.the stock is undervalued.
that he will relinquish the government's so-called golden share in the company.Jaguar shareholders agree.
GM has been negotiating a friendly transaction with Jaguar that likely would involve joint ventures and an eventual stake of just under 30%.the government's action, which caught Jaguar management flat-footed, may scuttle the GM minority deal by forcing it to fight for all of Jaguar.
The share price was languishing at about 400 pence.Ford's Sept. 19 announcement of its interest in a minority stake.
Such a countermove could end Jaguar's hopes for remaining independent and British-owned.it isn't clear how long GM would be willing to fight Ford for Jaguar.
It's either going to be a shootout.there only may be one player in town.
It is very hard to justify paying a silly price for Jaguar.an out-and-out bidding war were to start now.
Jaguar officials in the U.S. noted that Ford, as Jaguar's largest shareholder, now has the power to call for such a meeting.U.S. auto analysts noted that Ford is in the best position to benefit from the large number of Jaguar shares that have moved over the past month into the hands of arbitragers waiting for the highest takeover bid.
Jaguar's own defenses against a hostile bid are weakened.fewer than 3% of its shares are owned by employees and management.
Ford officials in the U.S. declined to comment on the British government's action or on any plans to call a special Jaguar shareholders meeting.GM officials said they, too, were surprised by the move, which left them to "consider all our options and explore matters further.
it hasn't yet disclosed how many shares it now owns.GM has U.S. approval to buy up to 15% of Jaguar's stock.
Jaguar was shocked by Mr. Ridley's decision.management had believed the government wouldn't lift the golden share without consulting the company first.
the government wouldn't lift the golden share without consulting the company first.the government is taking a calculated risk.
The British government retained the single golden share.selling its stake in Jaguar in.
to clear the way.the playing field is level between all contestants.
Sales of new cars in Europe fell 4.2% in September from a year earlier.analysts say the market could continue to soften in the months ahead.
Tokyo stocks rebounded Tuesday from two consecutive daily losses in relatively active dealings.London shares rose, while trading in Frankfurt, West Germany, ended higher.
London shares also rose.trading in Frankfurt, West Germany, ended higher.
Advancing issues outnumbered decliners 542 to 362.208 issues were unchanged.
Small-lot buying targeted at incentive-backed issues pushed up the Nikkei.other sectors failed to attract investor interest and remained sluggish.
First domestic interest rates are likely to stay at higher levels.increased anticipation of inflation followed rising consumer prices reported last week.
First domestic interest rates are likely to stay at higher levels.increased anticipation of inflation followed rising consumer prices reported last week.
Third, oil prices haven't declined.supply has been increasing.
Mitsubishi Estate ended the day at 2680, up 150.The gains sparked buying interest in other real-estate companies.
In London, prices finished at intraday peaks, comforted by a reassuring early performance on Wall Street and news that the British government will waive its "golden share" in auto maker Jaguar.trading was very sketchy.
But trading was very sketchy.investment decision makers remain wary from gyrations and upsets of recent weeks.
In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 132.00 points to 35549.44 In London, prices finished at intraday peaks.the broad-based Financial Times 100-share index added 30.4 points to end at 2142.6, while reaching its minimum of 2120.5 a half hour into the session.
In Tokyo, the Nikkei index of 225 selected issues was up 132.00 points to 35549.44 In London, prices finished at intraday peaks.the broad-based Financial Times 100-share index added 30.4 points to end at 2142.6, while reaching its minimum of 2120.5 a half hour into the session.
Meanwhile, the broad-based Financial Times 100-share index added 30.4 points to end at 2142.6.reaching its minimum of 2120.5 a half hour into the session.
In London, prices finished at intraday peaks, comforted by a reassuring early performance on Wall Street and news that the British government will waive its "golden share" in auto maker Jaguar.The market moved at early afternoon on news that Jaguar shares were being temporarily suspended at 746 pence ($11.80) each.
The golden share was scheduled to expire at the beginning of.although the golden share has been waived, a hostile bidder for Jaguar would still have to alter the British concern's articles of association which ban shareholdings of more than 15%.
But a hostile bidder for Jaguar would still have to alter the British concern's articles of association which ban shareholdings of more than 15%.the golden share has been waived.
the market was still listening to the parliamentary debate on the economy.the London trading session drew to a close.
On the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, share prices closed higher in fairly thin trading.selective buying by foreigners helped propel prices.
Contributing to the market's reserved stance was the release later in the day of new data on the health of the U.S. economy, in the form of the U.S. index of leading indicators.the end of the month position-squaring might have also played a minor role.
Contributing to the market's reserved stance was the release later in the day of new data on the health of the U.S. economy, in the form of the U.S. index of leading indicators.Additionally, the end of the month position-squaring might have played a minor role.
According to reports released by the two government agencies, domestic consumer and wholesale prices each rose by 0.2% in October from the previous month.consumer prices for the first 10 months of 1989 surged by 5% and wholesale prices by 1.3%.
As a result, consumer prices for the first 10 months of 1989 surged by 5%.wholesale prices by 1.3%.
Typically, banks offer CD yields higher than those on Treasury bills, which are considered the safest short-term investments.when market interest rates move up rapidly, increases in bank CD yields sometimes lag.
But increases in bank CD yields sometimes lag.market interest rates move up rapidly.
The CD trend runs counter to the direction of short-term interest rates at the Treasury bill auction Monday.Most yields on short-term jumbo CDs, those with denominations over $90,000, moved in the opposite direction of Treasury bill yields.
Most yields on short-term jumbo CDs, those with denominations over $90,000, also moved in the opposite direction of Treasury bill yields..The average six-month yield on a jumbo CD was at 7.90%, down from 7.93%, Banxquote said..For longer-term CDs, yields were up..The average two-year and five-year jumbos were up 0.02 of a percentage point to 7.91% and 7.96%, respectively.CDs sold through major broker-dealer networks were up slightly almost across the board.
However, CDs sold through major broker-dealer networks were up slightly almost across the board.The average six-month CD in that category added 0.05 percentage point to 8.35%.
It is offered by the flagship banks of New York's Manufacturers Hanover Corp. in the one-year maturity only.on average, the major California banks have the highest yields on CDs, according to Banxquote.
I had to reach back to French 101.the monsieur avec clipboard leaned over my shoulder during the coffee phase of dinner and asked whether I wanted to ride in a montgolfiere.
I was a last-minute (read interloping) attendee at a French journalism convention.so far the festivities had been taken up entirely by eating, drinking, smoking, sleeping and drinking.
The man with the clipboard represented a halfhearted attempt to introduce a bit of les sportif into our itinerary.as the French embody a Zen-like state of blase when it comes to athletics (try finding a Nautilus machine in Paris), my fellow conventioners were having none of it.
But my fellow conventioners were having none of it.the French embody a Zen-like state of blase when it comes to athletics.
But as the French embody a Zen-like state of blase.it comes to athletics.
Back in the U.S.A. this kind of chi-chi airborne activity wins heartwarmingly covetous responses.in Epinal, a gray 16th-century river town adjacent to France's Vosges mountain region, none of these Yankee-come-lately enthusiasms for things aloft was evident.
The first thing anybody will tell you about ballooning is that it requires zip in the way of athletic prowess, or even a measure of derring-do.They will tell you that even if you hate heights, you can still balloon.
that you can still balloon.you hate heights.
even if you hate heights.that you can balloon.
don't look down.you are ascending.
In between came lots of coffee drinking.watching the balloons inflate.
I followed its progress from the "chase car.it wasn't my turn in the balloon.
the silver mists rise off the river.the French cows amble about the fields.
It's hard not to feel that God's in his heaven with this kind of bird's-eye view of the world.your pilote in silly plaid beret kept pointing out how "belle" it all was.
that you can't steer.neither can your pilot.
Most balloonists seldom go higher than 2,000 feet.most average a leisurely 5-10 miles an hour.
there is little sense of motion.the balloon is cruising along at a steady altitude.
does one feel, well, airborne in a picnic basket.one is ascending.
Attention," yelled our pilot.our basket plunged into the canal.
We scuttled along for a few feet.he plunged us into the drink again.
where we had the exquisite pleasure of scrambling out of the basket into the mud.the French half of our ballooning tag team scrambled in.
Back in the chase car, we drove around some more, got stuck in a ditch, enlisted the aid of a local farmer to get out the trailer hitch and pull us out of the ditch.We rendezvoused with our balloon.
It was the most exercise we'd had all morning.it was followed by our driving immediately to the nearest watering hole.
where we watched a few French duffers maul the first tee.we sat under Cinzano umbrellas.
A whole morning of ballooning and I had been off the ground barely 30 minutes.the event's envy-quotient back in the U.S.A. was near peerless.
I couldn't resist rearing up on my soggy loafers and saluting.we streaked by a blase gendarme.
that the plunge in the stock market might have provoked a steep fall in the currency that might have "unhinged financial markets.the Treasury hadn't intervened in foreign-exchange markets in September and early October to reduce the dollar's value.
that if the Treasury hadn't intervened in foreign-exchange markets in September and early October to reduce the dollar's value, the plunge in the stock market might have provoked a steep fall in the currency that might have "unhinged financial markets.intervention is "highly visible," is taken seriously by financial markets and works better than "was recognized some time ago.
to testify jointly with Mr. Mulford.and asked to appear after the Treasury official had completed his testimony.
to appear.the Treasury official had completed his testimony.
Mr. Mulford said reports of tension between the Treasury and Fed have been exaggerated, insisting that they involved "nuances.Mr. Johnson said that "in the scheme of things, these things are minor.
The solution is stronger domestic growth {in Germany}.because the growth of the German economy has been stronger than expected it's difficult for the U.S. to argue that Germany ought to adopt more stimulative monetary and fiscal policies.
But it's difficult for the U.S. to argue that Germany ought to adopt more stimulative monetary and fiscal policies.the growth of the German economy has been stronger than expected.
Germany's trade surplus is largely with other European countries rather than with the U.S.nonetheless U.S. companies might be more successful in European markets if not for the German export push.
Germany's trade surplus is largely with other European countries rather than with the U.S.But U.S. companies might be more successful in European markets if not for the German export push.
In the past year, one inside director resigned.three others retired.
Some U.S. allies are complaining that President Bush is pushing conventional-arms talks too quickly, creating a risk that negotiators will make errors that could affect the security of Western Europe for years.Concerns about the pace of the Vienna talks are being registered at the Pentagon.
Mr. Bush has called for an agreement by next September at the latest.some American defense officials believe the North Atlantic Treaty Organization should take more time to examine the long-term implications of the options being considered.
to keep some short-range nuclear weapons on their soil.Soviet armored forces are thinned out.
that a reduction of NATO forces under a treaty will increase the possibility of a conventional Soviet attack.the West retains a residual force of nuclear weapons in Europe.
So far, no ally has complained openly, preserving the impression that NATO is in line with the Bush position that a quick agreement bringing Soviet conventional forces down to parity with NATO is the West's top bargaining priority.even though NATO negotiators have only 10 months left under the Bush timetable, they are still wrestling over such seemingly fundamental questions as "What is a tank.
they are still wrestling over such seemingly fundamental questions as "What is a tank?.But NATO negotiators have only 10 months left under the Bush timetable.
the Soviets would have to destroy some 1,800 tanks.the U.S. would lose none.
while the U.S. would lose none.it has no light tanks in Europe.
The Soviets complicated the issue by offering to include light tanks, which are as light as 10 tons..Oleg A. Grinevsky, the chief Soviet negotiator in the conventional-arms talks, argued that this would mean the Soviets would have to destroy some 1,800 tanks, while the U.S. would lose none because it has no light tanks in Europe.the issue is stickier than it seems.
France, Britain and Italy all have light tanks they would like to keep out of the talks.some U.S. Army analysts worry that the proposed Soviet redefinition is aimed at blocking the U.S. from developing lighter, more transportable, high-technology tanks.
The Soviets insisted that aircraft be brought into the talks.argued for exempting some 4,000 Russian planes because they are "solely defensive.
for exempting some 4,000 Russian planes.they are "solely defensive.
The dispute over that issue, according to one U.S. official, is a "potential treaty stopper.only President Bush and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev may be able to resolve it.
Accounting problems raise more knotty issues.Greece and Turkey are suspected of overstating their arsenals in hopes that they can emerge from the arms-reduction treaty with large remaining forces to deter each other.
So what.you miss 50 tanks somewhere.
that we ought to keep pressing ahead as quickly as possible.we can get that {Warsaw Pact} superiority brought down to parity.
The venture would be the latest in Coke's rapid expansion of overseas investment.The move reflects Coke's eagerness to have a hand in developing the soft-drink markets in Pacific Basin countries.
That's.when Coke looks to the Pacific area, it sees an economic and demographic gold mine.
because it sees an economic and demographic gold mine.Coke looks to the Pacific area.
In countries such as Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore, economies are growing, resulting in a rise in disposable income that consumers can use for soft drinks.unlike Europe and the U.S., where populations are aging, the Pacific Basin countries have growing proportions of youths -- the heaviest consumers of Coca-Cola and other sodas.
how the joint venture would be structured.how much the company would invest in the transaction.
it is too early to say how the joint venture would be structured, or how much the company would invest in the transaction.In the past Coke has typically taken a minority stake in such ventures.
Coke has tended to increase its control.results were sluggish in a given country.
In Singapore, per-capita consumption is about one-third that of the U.S.combining Fraser & Neave's own soft drinks with Coca-Cola's gives the Singapore company more than half the share of the soda market there.
Giovanni Agnelli, a limited partnership that is the master holding company for Fiat's Agnelli family, owns approximately 75% of the shares in Istituto Finanziario Industriale.which owns approximately 40% of Fiat, Italy's biggest private-sector industrial group.
Maria Sole Agnelli Teodorani, sister of Fiat Chairman Giovanni Agnelli, agreed to trade her shares in IFI for new ordinary shares in the limited partnership, which will give her control of 4.67% of Giovanni Agnelli & Co.The Aga Khan agreed to trade some of his stake in Luxembourg-based Ifint S.A., another Agnelli family company, for 7.45% of Giovanni Agnelli & Co. 's capital.
Maria Sole Agnelli Teodorani, sister of Fiat Chairman Giovanni Agnelli, agreed to trade her shares in IFI for new ordinary shares in the limited partnership, which will give her control of 4.67% of Giovanni Agnelli & Co.The Aga Khan agreed to trade some of his stake in Luxembourg-based Ifint S.A., another Agnelli family company, for 7.45% of Giovanni Agnelli & Co. 's capital.
The Aga Khan owns 10% of Ifint's capital.IFI owns 23%.
As a result of the transaction Giovanni Agnelli & Co. will control 79.18% of IFI's ordinary shares.Its capital will be raised to 232.4 billion lire ($172.5 million) from the current 204.3 billion lire.
The value of the two transactions wasn't disclosed.an IFI spokesman said no cash would change hands.
who is a longtime family friend and frequently goes sailing with Mr. Agnelli.Mr. Agnelli and the Aga Khan have some business ties.
Mr. Agnelli and the Aga Khan also have some business ties.that the current agreement could lead to further collaboration.
that the current agreement could lead to further collaboration.Ifint earlier this year bought an 18% stake in Alisarda, the Aga Khan's airline, which flies between Italy and Sardinia.
It unfortunately encourages others to engage in a highly dangerous and illegal activity that only a very few are doing now.it treats such activities in a frivolous, cavalier fashion, with total indifference to common sense and public safety.
Under the agreement with the House and Senate leaders, the minimum wage would rise from the current $3.35 an hour to $4.25 an hour by April 1991.Employers could pay a subminimum "training wage" for 90 days to new workers who are up to 19 years old, and then for another 90 days if the company institutes a specific training program for the newcomers.
Employers could also pay a subminimum "training wage" for 90 days to new workers who are up to 19 years old.and for another 90 days if the company institutes a specific training program for the newcomers.
and then for another 90 days.the company institutes a specific training program for the newcomers.
that the final minimum-wage increase will meet the standards set by Mr. Bush.they made a small compromise on the length of a training wage.
Under the compromise, the $4.25 level would be reached nine months earlier.the training subminimum would be shorter, unless it is tied to a training plan.
while the training subminimum would be shorter.it is tied to a training plan.
that the training wage was a way of allowing employers to pay less than the minimum wage.new workers need far less than six months to be trained for their jobs.
In the Senate, Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.), chairman of the Labor Committee, and Pete Domenici, (R., N.M.) ranking minority member of the Budget Committee, have been working on a compromise.their soundings showed that the Senate appeared to be heading toward enough strength to override another Bush veto.
they might have done better.we'd held their feet to the fire.
Democrats "yielded a great deal" on the size of the increase.concessions from the White House on the training wage, which he said make it "less harsh.
The AFL-CIO said the compromise has "adequate safeguards, so the youth are not exploited and older workers are not displaced.which opposed the administration's subminimum idea.
the compromise has "adequate safeguards.the youth are not exploited and older workers are not displaced.
so the youth are not exploited.older workers are not displaced.
Capital requirements will be declining.no new generating facilities will be required for several years.
The price wasn't disclosed.one analyst estimated that it was $150 million.
that disposing of the carpet business would improve "total financial performance.The move would allow the company to concentrate on core businesses, which include ceramic tile, floor coverings and furniture.
The move also would allow the company to concentrate on core businesses, which include ceramic tile, floor coverings and furniture.such a sale could help Armstrong reassure its investors and deter the Belzbergs.
Recently it upgraded its plants.it could make stain-resistant products with higher quality dyes.
The government's primary economic-forecasting gauge rose a slight 0.2% in September.the report offered little new information on the degree to which the U.S. economy is slowing.
The small increase in the index of leading indicators does lend support to the view that the economy has slowed noticeably.it doesn't give much of a clue as to whether a recession is on the horizon.
the decline supports other indications that the drop in mortgage rates earlier this year has had only a limited beneficial effect on the housing market.September's weakness followed two strong months for home sales.
The September drop was the largest since a 19% drop in January 1982.monthly changes in this measure are even less reliable than those in other economic indicators.
it is 90% confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5% and 23% during the month.the figures are based on a small sample.
it is 90% confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5% and 23% during the month.it takes four months to establish a trend.
In another report yesterday, the Commerce Department said sales of new single-family houses plunged 14% in September to an annual rate of 618,000 from 719,000 in August..The declines were particularly pronounced in the Northeast and in the South, where Hurricane Hugo was a factor..Although September's weakness followed two strong months for home sales, the decline supports other indications that the drop in mortgage rates earlier this year has had only a limited beneficial effect on the housing market..The September drop was the largest since a 19% drop in January 1982, but monthly changes in this measure are even less reliable than those in other economic indicators..Because the figures are based on a small sample, the department said it is 90% confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5% and 23% during the month..The department also said it takes four months to establish a trend..So far this year, 534,000 newly built homes have been sold, down 4.5% from the like months of 1988..The index of leading indicators got a major boost in September from a surge in consumer expectations as measured by the University of Michigan..This measure had dropped sharply in August..The Commerce Department said that as a result of a new adjustment to the formula used to calculate the index, the influence of this component has been reduced..Of the 11 components to the index, only three others rose in September: the money supply, the length of the average work week and stock prices..Several components that track the health of the manufacturing sector of the economy turned down in September..These include new orders for manufactured consumer goods, lead times on vendor deliveries, orders for new plant and equipment, and backlogs of orders for durable goods.the National Association of Manufacturers said yesterday a recent poll of 53 executives on its board found that 61% don't expect a recession to occur until 1991 or later.
In another report yesterday, the Commerce Department said sales of new single-family houses plunged 14% in September to an annual rate of 618,000 from 719,000 in August..The declines were particularly pronounced in the Northeast and in the South, where Hurricane Hugo was a factor..Although September's weakness followed two strong months for home sales, the decline supports other indications that the drop in mortgage rates earlier this year has had only a limited beneficial effect on the housing market..The September drop was the largest since a 19% drop in January 1982, but monthly changes in this measure are even less reliable than those in other economic indicators..Because the figures are based on a small sample, the department said it is 90% confident only that new-home sales fell somewhere between 5% and 23% during the month..The department also said it takes four months to establish a trend..So far this year, 534,000 newly built homes have been sold, down 4.5% from the like months of 1988..The index of leading indicators got a major boost in September from a surge in consumer expectations as measured by the University of Michigan..This measure had dropped sharply in August..The Commerce Department said that as a result of a new adjustment to the formula used to calculate the index, the influence of this component has been reduced..Of the 11 components to the index, only three others rose in September: the money supply, the length of the average work week and stock prices..Several components that track the health of the manufacturing sector of the economy turned down in September..These include new orders for manufactured consumer goods, lead times on vendor deliveries, orders for new plant and equipment, and backlogs of orders for durable goods.the National Association of Manufacturers said yesterday a recent poll of 53 executives on its board found that 61% don't expect a recession to occur until 1991 or later.
60% of the executives said they would prefer that the Fed keep inflation-fighting as its top priority even if that means higher rates.manufacturers often are quick to call for lower interest rates.
they would prefer that the Fed keep inflation-fighting as its top priority.that means higher rates.
The average interest rate rose to 8.3875% at Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.337% at last week's sale.that the average rate rose to 8.0087% at its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 7.962% at last week's sale.
An imaginative novelist writing a thriller about amateur spy-chasing might invent a Clifford Stoll.it's unlikely.
but it's unlikely.It's unnecessary.
He is 37, an astronomer with impressive credentials, and something of a genius at making computers do his bidding.He is an entertaining writer.
He probably didn't penetrate any top-secret files.the KGB in East Berlin was willing to pay two of his associates, Peter Carl and Dirk Brezinski, $15,000 for some of the material Hess collected.
he could enter Unix and become a "super-user," with access to everything.his cuckoo's egg was laid.
Mr. Stoll was scanning the heavens at the Keck observatory of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in 1986 when his grant ran low.he was asked to switch to helping run the lab's computers.
Mr. Stoll suspected the intruder was one of those precocious students who has fun breaking into computers.after much tracking, it became evident to Mr. Stoll, through various clues, that the hacker was not on the Berkeley campus or even in California.
He made a midnight requisition of all the printers he could lay hands on.he could monitor all the telephone lines coming into the lab's computers.
he rigged up an alarm system, including a portable beeper, to alert him when Sventek came on the line.discovering that the hacker had taken over the dormant account of a legitimate user named Joe Sventek.
to alert him.Sventek came on the line.
Mr. Stoll moved too.the hacker moved.
Sometimes he would drag his keychain across the terminal to create static or slow the system down to frustrate his quarry.the hacker seemed to be into a sensitive file.
The FBI initially showed little interest.he had the impression other federal security agencies were tangled up in legal red tape.
Seems to.it's possible that the CIA and the National Security Agency were more interested than they let on to Mr. Stoll.
One of its international specialists, Steve White, took a quick interest in Mr. Stoll's hunt.tracing the hacker to West Germany.
ultimately tracing the hacker to West Germany.The West Germans took over.
One of its international specialists, Steve White, took a quick interest in Mr. Stoll's hunt, ultimately tracing the hacker to West Germany..The West Germans then took over.and found Markus Hess.
One of its international specialists, Steve White, took a quick interest in Mr. Stoll's hunt, ultimately tracing the hacker to West Germany..The West Germans then took over.and found Markus Hess.
Mips Computer Systems Inc. today will unveil a new general-purpose computer that will compete with more expensive machines from companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc. and Digital Equipment Corp.The closely held Sunnyvale, Calif., company will announce an agreement to supply computers to Control Data Corp.
The machine is part of an effort by Mips to establish itself as a supplier of computers, not just of integrated-circuit technology.Mips wants to wedge into markets other than traditional RISC applications such as engineering.
The Control Data deal is a boon for Mips.it gives the the five-year-old company one more ally as it battles more established electronic concerns such as Sun, Hewlett-Packard Co., Motorola Inc. and Intel Corp. for the emerging market for RISC machines.
because it gives the the five-year-old company one more ally.it battles more established electronic concerns such as Sun, Hewlett-Packard Co., Motorola Inc. and Intel Corp. for the emerging market for RISC machines.
They're getting some major wins.Last month Mips agreed to supply its computers to Nixdorf Computer AG of West Germany and France's Groupe Bull.
Sony Corp., Tandem Computers Inc. and Digital Equipment have agreed to sell MIPS computers.companies such as Japan's NEC Corp. and West Germany's Siemens A.G. have agreed to make Mips chips under license.
to raise temporary working capital through debt issued from an agency that wouldn't be counted on the federal budget.the RTC should consider using Treasury debt.
The borrowing to raise these funds would be paid off.assets of sick thrifts are sold.
the RTC to issue notes for as much as 85% of the value of the assets it holds.higher interest rates paid on off-budget debt could add billions to the bailout costs, and wouldn't be subject to congressional scrutiny.
$50 billion to be spent to sell or merge sick S&Ls and their assets.that is a net cost.
The RTC will have to sell or merge hundreds of insolvent thrifts over the next three years.the agency must raise cash to maintain assets, such as real estate, until they can be sold.
In the meantime, the agency must raise cash to maintain assets, such as real estate.they can be sold.
In the meantime, the agency must raise cash to maintain assets, such as real estate, until they can be sold.the short-term debt is paid off through the proceeds of selling the assets.
the agency to sell savings and loans without their bad assets.hold the assets until they can be sold under favorable conditions.
then hold the assets.they can be sold under favorable conditions.
it hasn't yet been determined how the RTC will raise the cash.the administration doesn't want it to be included on the federal budget.
but the administration doesn't want it to be included on the federal budget.it would "distort" the budget process.
it hasn't yet been determined how the RTC will raise the cash, but the administration doesn't want it to be included on the federal budget, because it would "distort" the budget process by requiring either exemptions from Gramm-Rudman or big increases in the budget deficit.the worst possibility would be raising no working capital.
the RTC may have to slow {S&L sales} or dump acquired assets through fire sales.working capital financing is not provided.
Not a gripping question.you're the pastry chef of this city's Chez Panisse restaurant and you've just lost your priceless personal dessert notebook.
unless you're the pastry chef of this city's Chez Panisse restaurant.you've just lost your priceless personal dessert notebook.
The tattered black binder was in chef Lindsey Shere's purse.it was stolen from her house recently.
doubt the crime was driven by a passion for sweets.they figure the culprit probably took money from Ms. Shere's wallet and discarded all the tips in the five-by-eight-inch looseleaf.
Chez Panisse hasn't exactly subjected diners to vanilla ice cream because of the theft.the restaurant's ever-changing menu of five-course dinners requires constant improvisation.
it supposedly hasn't repeated a meal.opening in 1971.
Still, the restaurant's ever-changing menu of five-course dinners requires constant improvisation.that puts added pressure on Chez Panisse dessert-menu planners.
Many in the Bay Area's pastry community express disbelief that Ms. Shere kept only one copy of such valuable notes.she has received moral support from Baker's Dozen, a group of California pastry chefs that meets regularly to discuss issues like how to keep meringues from weeping and how bovine eating habits affect butter texture.
There are so many possible proportions.you consider how many things are made out of eggs and butter and milk.
The company has declined requests to discuss the changes.Mr. Weekes has said that Mr. Hollander wanted to have his own team.
UNIFIRST Corp. declared a 2-for-1 stock split.The Wilmington, Mass., garment service company boosted its quarterly dividend 20% to three cents a share adjusted for the split.
UNIFIRST Corp. declared a 2-for-1 stock split.UniFirst reported that net income rose 21% to $3 million, or 29 cents a share adjusted for the split, for the fourth quarter ended Aug. 26.
it would pay HealthVest $3.9 million in overdue rent and mortgage payments and repay $1.1 million in funds that HealthVest advanced for construction work on facilities.Healthcare agreed to make monthly rent and mortgage payments of $2.7 million to $3 million to HealthVest during the standstill period.
to be paid.Healthcare successfully completes asset sales.
the amount due above the amount paid will be added to the three-year note.Healthcare actually owes HealthVest $4.2 million in rent and mortgage payments each month.
which has been unable to pay its debts.Healthcare hasn't made complete rent and mortgage payments since July.
it is able to make the payments.it completed a transaction with Greenery Rehabilitation Group Inc. in which Greenery purchased stock and warrants for $500,000 and loaned Healthcare $9 million.
Actually, about two years ago, the Journal listed the creation of the money fund as one of the 10 most significant events in the world of finance in the 20th century.the Reserve Fund, America's first money fund, was not named, nor were the creators of the money-fund concept, Harry Brown and myself.
But the Reserve Fund, America's first money fund, was not named.were the creators of the money-fund concept, Harry Brown and myself.
But the Reserve Fund, America's first money fund, was not named.were the creators of the money-fund concept, Harry Brown and myself.
The crowning moment in the career of Joseph F. O'Kicki came.300 local and state dignitaries packed into his elegant, marble-columned courtroom here last year for his swearing in as President Judge of Cambria County.
he was heralded by a trumpet fanfare.the judge marched down the center aisle in his flowing black robe.
To many, it was a ceremony more befitting a king than a rural judge seated in the isolated foothills of the southern Allegheny Mountains.then Judge O'Kicki often behaved like a man who would be king -- and an arrogant and abusive one.
To many, it was a ceremony more befitting a king than a rural judge seated in the isolated foothills of the southern Allegheny Mountains.But Judge O'Kicki often behaved like a man who would be king -- and, some say, an arrogant and abusive one.
it reflects the vulnerability of many small communities to domineering judges.his case may be extreme.
by reneging on a promise of a better paying job.pocketing a $500 bribe.
that the judge once called her to his office.wearing nothing at all.
however, they provide ample testimony to the awesome power of judges in rural communities.only some of the allegations stand up.
Some of the allegations are simply bizarre.Even if only some of the allegations stand up they provide ample testimony to the awesome power of judges in rural communities.
That power can sometimes be abused.jurists in smaller jurisdictions operate without many of the restraints that serve as corrective measures in urban areas.
Fear of alienating that judge is pervasive.lawyers think twice before appealing a judge's ruling, are reluctant to mount, or even support, challenges against him for re-election and are usually loath to file complaints that might impugn a judge's integrity.
As a result lawyers think twice.appealing a judge's ruling.
He graduated near the top of his class, serving on the school law review with Richard Thornburgh.It was in law school that Mr. O'Kicki and his first wife had the first of seven daughters.
he was elected to his first 10-year term as judge in 1971.practicing law locally.
He has been considered several times for appointments to federal district and appellate court vacancies in Pennsylvania.when he ran unsuccessfully for a state appellate court seat in 1983, the Pennsylvania Bar Association rated him "one of the best available," after interviewing local lawyers.
And the Pennsylvania Bar Association rated him "one of the best available," after interviewing local lawyers.he ran unsuccessfully for a state appellate court seat in 1983.
And the Pennsylvania Bar Association rated him "one of the best available.interviewing local lawyers.
What about those institutions that are supposed to be the bedrock of society, the banks and the bar association. . . ?" wrote a columnist for the Tribune-Democrat, a newspaper in nearby Johnstown.the scandal became public.
the judicial process wouldn't be under the taint it is today.a banker or a lawyer had spoken out years ago.
Eventually he began ducking out of his office rather than face the judge.he visited.
Judge O'Kicki unexpectedly awarded him an additional $100,000.Mr. Green won a $240,000 verdict in a land condemnation case against the state in June 1983.
Mr. Green thought little of it.the judge walked up to him after the courtroom had cleared and suggested a kickback.
until the judge walked up to him.the courtroom had cleared.
Appalled, Mr. Green never paid the money.he didn't complain to the state's Judicial Inquiry and Review Board, either, saying later that he feared retribution.
Appalled, Mr. Green never paid the money, he testified.saying that he feared retribution.
Like most of Cambria County's lawyers and residents who had dealings with the judge, Mr. Green declined to be interviewed for this article.no one with a complaint about the judge would allow his name to be printed.
I don't have anything much to say.that's what you're going to find from everyone else you talk to up here.
The practice of law is a matter of biting one's lip.you live in a small community.
The practice of law is a matter of biting one's lip.you live in a small community.
One had best not dance on top of a coffin.the lid is sealed tightly shut.
He sipped tea sweetened with honey from his high-backed leather chair at his bench.scribbling notes ordering spectators to stop whispering or to take off their hats in his courtroom.
He sipped tea sweetened with honey from his high-backed leather chair at his bench.scribbling notes ordering spectators to stop whispering or to take off their hats in his courtroom.
Four years ago, he jailed all nine members of the Cambria County School Board for several hours.they defied his order to extend the school year by several weeks to make up for time lost during a teachers' strike.
the years, months, weeks and days remaining.mandatory retirement would force aside the presiding president judge, giving Judge O'Kicki the seniority required to take over as the county's top court administrator.
My name is judge," Judge O'Kicki told a car salesman in Ebensburg.he bought a new red Pontiac Sunbird in October 1984, according to the grand-jury report.
The judge was considered imperious, abrasive and ambitious.despite the judge's imperial bearing, no one ever had reason to suspect possible wrongdoing.
there was never any indication that he was doing anything wrong.this came up and hit the press.
The judge came under scrutiny in late 1987.the state attorney general's office launched an unrelated investigation into corruption in Cambria County.
the dealership had "certain apprehensions" about the judge's reputation, according to the grand-jury report.the judge bought his new Sunbird from James E. Black Pontiac-Cadillac in Ebensburg five years ago.
The dealership took the extra step of having all the paper work for the transaction pre-approved by Ebensburg's local lender, Laurel Bank.as an additional precaution, the car dealership took the judge's photograph as he stood next to his new car with sales papers in hand -- proof that he had received the loan documents.
Then, as an additional precaution, the car dealership took the judge's photograph.he stood next to his new car with sales papers in hand -- proof that he had received the loan documents.
Then, as an additional precaution, the car dealership took the judge's photograph as he stood next to his new car with sales papers in hand -- proof that he had received the loan documents.when the judge received his payment book, he disavowed the deal.
But he disavowed the deal.the judge received his payment book.
But he disavowed the deal.the judge went a step farther.
a vice president asked him to intervene in an unrelated legal dispute involving a trust account.Laurel Bank tried to repossess the car.
I find myself in an adversary relationship with Laurel Bank.I am not inclined to extend myself as far as any favors are concerned.
Perhaps I may be inclined to reconsider your request.my personal matters can be resolved with Laurel bank in the near future.
the dealer had to repair.it could be resold.
The judge says he can't discuss in detail how he will defend himself at his trial.he contends that if he were as corrupt as state prosecutors believe, he would be far wealthier than he is.
that he would be far wealthier than he is.he were as corrupt as state prosecutors believe.
I lose my position, my career, my pension, my home and my investments.I lose.
that The Wall Street Journal uses 220,000 metric tons of newsprint each year.that only 1.4% of it comes from recycled paper.
but that only 1.4% of it comes from recycled paper.the Los Angeles Times, for example, uses 83% recycled paper.
payable to holders of record on Nov. 10.the Securities and Exchange Commission approves this as the effective date of the registration statement.
which will be traded on the national over-the-counter market.which would be used for acquisitions and other general corporate purposes.
The rate on the notes will be reset annually to give the issue a market value of 101.the maximum coupon at which the notes can be reset is 16 1/4%.
The issue is 6% to 7% overcollateralized.75% of the loans are covered by a General Electric pool policy covering losses of as much as 10% of the original principal balance of the loans.
Berthold is based in Wildbad, West Germany.and has operations in Belgium.
EG&G Inc. said it acquired Laboratorium Prof..Dr. Berthold, a German maker of scientific instruments.EG&G said it sold most of its Mason Research Institute subsidiary to Transgenic Sciences Inc., a closely held biotechnology company based in Worcester, Mass.
how much oil man William Herbert Hunt will owe the government.his assets are liquidated.
The surprise announcement came.the IRS broke off negotiations with Mr. Hunt on a settlement of the one-time tycoon's personal bankruptcy case.
it also means that Mr. Hunt could be stripped of virtually all of his assets if the Tax Court rules against him in a 1982 case heard earlier this year in Washington, D.C.the action removes one obstacle in the way of an overall settlement to the case.
Although the action removes one obstacle in the way of an overall settlement to the case.it means that Mr. Hunt could be stripped of virtually all of his assets if the Tax Court rules against him in a 1982 case heard earlier this year in Washington, D.C.
that Mr. Hunt could be stripped of virtually all of his assets.the Tax Court rules against him in a 1982 case heard earlier this year in Washington, D.C.
The Internal Revenue Service said it is willing to let the U.S. Tax Court decide how much oil man William Herbert Hunt will owe the government after his assets are liquidated.a federal judge hearing Mr. Hunt's bankruptcy case yesterday turned down a proposed $65.7 million settlement between Mr. Hunt and Minpeco S.A., another major creditor in the case.
in which the IRS would get 70% of the proceeds from a liquidating trust.30% would go to other creditors.
Regarding Mr. Hunt's taxes, he and the IRS have apparently agreed on a basic formula for liquidating his estate in which the IRS would get 70% of the proceeds from a liquidating trust and 30% would go to other creditors.they have been at odds over how much Mr. Hunt would owe the government after his assets are sold.
over how much Mr. Hunt would owe the government.his assets are sold.
The IRS had demanded $90 million.Mr. Hunt would agree to no more than $60 million.
he might have kept.he had settled with the IRS.
that Mr. Hunt stood to lose certain oil and gas properties, $200,000 in English pottery, a Colorado condominium and other assets he might have kept if he had settled with the IRS.they wanted to roll the dice and we're going to let them.
But they wanted to roll the dice.we're going to let them.
That may not come as a surprise to Americans who have watched the Japanese snap up properties in the U.S. from golf courses to a stake in Rockefeller Center.it marks a big change for the Japanese, who shunned mortgage securities after getting burned by a big downturn in interest rates a few years back.
who shunned mortgage securities.getting burned by a big downturn in interest rates a few years back.
You can't say it's a "tsunami" (tidal wave).we're making some headway.
Earlier this year, Blackstone Group, a New York investment bank, had no trouble selling out a special $570 million mortgage-securities trust it created for Japanese investors..Industrial Bank of Japan, which claims to be the biggest Japanese buyer of U.S. mortgage securities, says it will more than double its purchases this year, to an amount one official puts at several billion dollars.a Fannie Mae seminar this week promises to draw hundreds of prospective investors, who can be expected to channel tens of billions of dollars into the market in the next few years.
Last year, there were only several big investors who were interested "This year, some investors are changing their policies and investing a lot.strong demand could help to drive down interest rates on mortgage securities.
Last year, there were only several big investors who were interested "This year, some investors are changing their policies and investing a lot.strong demand could help to drive down interest rates on mortgage securities.
At the moment, Nomura is the only Japanese institution authorized to act as a primary seller of Fannie Mae instruments.that they are considering asking to join the 59-dealer selling group.
that the government would support them if necessary.they aren't backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.
that the government would support them.necessary.
These securities are attractive to Japanese investors for three reasons.there is a risk, which the Japanese discovered when they first dipped their toes into the market nearly five years ago.
which the Japanese discovered.they first dipped their toes into the market nearly five years ago.
issuers of mortgage securities retain the right to buy back their bonds before maturity.most mortgages can be prepaid or refinanced at any time.
That's a headache for long-term investors.it forces them to reinvest their money -- usually at lower rates than the original mortgage securities carried.
that people didn't understand the prepayment risk.they were surprised and very disappointed by prepayment.
mortgage securities pay interest monthly.most mortgages require homeowners to make monthly payments.
Compounding the trouble to Japanese investors, mortgage securities pay interest monthly, since most mortgages require homeowners to make monthly payments.Japanese institutional investors are used to quarterly or semiannual payments on their investments, so the monthly cash flow posed administrative problems.
But Japanese institutional investors are used to quarterly or semiannual payments on their investments.the monthly cash flow posed administrative problems.
But there is a risk, which the Japanese discovered when they first dipped their toes into the market nearly five years ago..Since most mortgages can be prepaid or refinanced at any time, issuers of mortgage securities retain the right to buy back their bonds before maturity..That's a headache for long-term investors, since it forces them to reinvest their money -- usually at lower rates than the original mortgage securities carried Compounding the trouble to Japanese investors, mortgage securities pay interest monthly, since most mortgages require homeowners to make monthly payments..But Japanese institutional investors are used to quarterly or semiannual payments on their investments, so the monthly cash flow posed administrative problems.Japanese investors steered clear of the mortgage securities.
As a result, Japanese investors steered clear of the mortgage securities.they didn't lose touch with the U.S. issuers.
Since 1985, Japanese investors have bought nearly 80% of $10 billion in Fannie Mae corporate debt issued to foreigners, money that Fannie Mae uses to buy mortgages from U.S. banks.Japanese investors took up nearly all of two $200 million Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits, a kind of collateralized mortgage obligation, that were offered to foreigners this year.
Since 1985, Japanese investors have bought nearly 80% of $10 billion in Fannie Mae corporate debt issued to foreigners, money that Fannie Mae uses to buy mortgages from U.S. banks..And Japanese investors took up nearly all of two $200 million Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits, a kind of collateralized mortgage obligation, that were offered to foreigners this year.further packaging of mortgage-backed securities, such as Blackstone's fund, have reduced the effects of prepayment risk and automatically reinvest monthly payments so institutions don't have to.
In addition, further packaging of mortgage-backed securities, such as Blackstone's fund, have reduced the effects of prepayment risk and automatically reinvest monthly payments.institutions don't have to.
uninvited takeovers are still alive despite premature reports of their demise.the debate about poison pills will continue to rage in the boardrooms of corporations and the halls of academia.
they usually give current shareholders the right to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount if certain events occur.poison pills come in different colors and shapes.
to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount.certain events occur.
to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount.a hostile bidder acquires more than a specified percentage of the corporation's stock.
they usually give current shareholders the right to buy more stock of their corporation at a large discount if certain events occur.these discount purchase rights may generally be redeemed at a nominal cost by the corporation's directors if they approve of a bidder.
However, these discount purchase rights may generally be redeemed at a nominal cost by the corporation's directors.they approve of a bidder.
bidders to negotiate with a corporation's directors.who are put in a better position to pursue the long-term interests of the corporation.
Does this team have a viable strategy for improving shareholder values.does this strategy require implementation over an extended period.
the answers to these questions are affirmative.institutional investors are likely to be favorably disposed toward a specific poison pill.
If the answers to these questions are affirmative, then institutional investors are likely to be favorably disposed toward a specific poison pill.the problem is that once most poison pills are adopted, they survive forever.
that they survive forever.most poison pills are adopted.
who will be the CEO in 10 years.the current management team may be outstanding.
what will be the strategy in 25 years.the five-year strategy may be excellent.
At the end of this period, the poison pill would be eliminated automatically.a new poison pill were approved by the then-current shareholders, who would have an opportunity to evaluate the corporation's strategy and management team at that time.
the shareholder rights plan adopted by Pennzoil last year.it received a huge litigation settlement from Texaco.
This pill automatically expires after three years.continued by a vote of the shareholders.
The Ontario Supreme Court overturned Mr. Blair's decision.He resigned from his executive positions with Enfield.
Buying 51% of Rockefeller Group Inc. is right up Mitsubishi Estate Co. 's alley in one sense: The huge Japanese real estate company is entering a long-term relationship with a similarly conservative U.S. owner of tony urban property.in another sense, the $846 million purchase is uncharacteristically nervy.
On balance, we think it will be positive.some Japanese government officials and businessmen worry that the prominent purchase is just the sort of deal that should be avoided for the time being.
But some Japanese government officials and businessmen worry that the prominent purchase is just the sort of deal that should be avoided for the time being.they criticize the timing.
Officially, yes, we encourage the free flow of direct investment.they didn't have to choose this particular moment.
In Los Angeles, Arco Plaza was sold to Shuwa Corp. for $620 million in 1986.Sumitomo Life Insurance Co. paid $300 million for Atlanta's IBM Tower last year.
Those who have no money and aren't buying think it's right to refrain.those with money who want to buy for themselves pay no attention.
Those who have no money and aren't buying think it's right to refrain, but those with money who want to buy for themselves pay no attention.to Mitsubishi Estate, the acquisition has just the elements that should win support from both sides.
First of all, it is a friendly acquisition in which Rockefeller sought out Mitsubishi Estate and asked it to buy a majority share..Secondly, the two companies found a similarity in their business and development philosophies and intend to cooperate in a range of activities from real estate to telecommunications.Mitsubishi Estate has no plans to interfere with Rockefeller's management beyond taking a place on the board.
We'll continue to work with them, in keeping with the reputation of the company.we'll rely very much on their leadership.
that has the pejorative connotation of doing the government's bidding.but suggests the clout inherent in maintaining such close ties.
It's known for its cautiousness.it has had little need for bold overseas ventures.
Rockefeller isn't the first overseas purchase for Mitsubishi Estate -- it has already played a leading role in designing Los Angeles's Citicorp Plaza.the Rockefeller investment is its largest.
But the Rockefeller investment is its largest.it will barely make a dent in Mitsubishi Estate's finances.
Mitsubishi Estate hasn't decided how it will raise the funds for the purchase, which are due in cash next April.the Marunouchi holdings alone are estimated to have a market value of as much as 10 trillion yen to 11 trillion yen.
but the Marunouchi holdings alone are estimated to have a market value of as much as 10 trillion yen to 11 trillion yen.as a member of the Mitsubishi group it is sure to win a favorable loan.
Moreover, as a member of the Mitsubishi group it is sure to win a favorable loan.the company could easily issue new convertible bonds or warrants.
For Mitsubishi Estate, the Rockefeller purchase will catapult it firmly into the overseas real estate business, the one area where it has lagged notably behind Japanese competitors such as Mitsui, which had purchased the Exxon Building.at home, Mitsubishi has control of some major projects.
For Mitsubishi Estate, the Rockefeller purchase will catapult it firmly into the overseas real estate business, the one area where it has lagged notably behind Japanese competitors such as Mitsui, which had purchased the Exxon Building.at home, Mitsubishi has control of some major projects.
The centerpiece of that complex, the Landmark Tower, will be Japan's tallest building.it is completed in 1993.
It is the largest private-sector landowner of the Minato-Mirai 21 project, a multibillion-yen development in the port city of Yokohama, about an hour outside Tokyo.Mitsubishi is pushing ahead with a controversial plan to redevelop Marunouchi into a business center of high-tech buildings, a project budgeted for 30 years and six trillion yen.
Time Warner Inc. and Sony Corp. may be today's public enemies.the two entertainment giants could end up becoming partners in a number of ventures as part of a settlement of their acrimonious legal dispute over Hollywood producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters.
The two sides in the legal battle have hurled accusations of duplicity at each other for weeks.both Warner and Sony have accused each other of trying to sabotage each other's prospects for success in the entertainment business.
The two sides in the legal battle have hurled accusations of duplicity at each other for weeks, and both Warner and Sony have accused each other of trying to sabotage each other's prospects for success in the entertainment business.it may amount to little more than posturing.
the two have continued on-again, off-again settlement talks over the last few weeks.the matter could be resolved within a week.
Both Warner and Sony declined to comment on the terms of the settlement discussions.the people familiar with the talks said that Warner isn't expected to get any cash in the settlement.
that Warner isn't expected to get any cash in the settlement.Sony is likely to agree to let Warner participate in certain of its businesses, such as the record club of Sony's CBS Records unit.
Warner has surpassed Sony as the largest record company.it doesn't have a powerful world-wide record club like CBS.
Instead, Sony is likely to agree to let Warner participate in certain of its businesses, such as the record club of Sony's CBS Records unit.The two sides are discussing certain business ventures involving cable rights to Columbia's movies.
The two sides are also discussing certain business ventures involving cable rights to Columbia's movies.Sony is expected to agree to swap Columbia's 35% stake in the sprawling Burbank, Calif., studio that Warner and Columbia share, in exchange for the old MGM studio lot that Warner acquired with the purchase of Lorimar Telepictures Corp.
but the two entertainment giants could end up becoming partners in a number of ventures as part of a settlement of their acrimonious legal dispute over Hollywood producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters.it may be tough for the two to have a smooth partnership in anything, in the wake of sworn affidavits filed over the last week.
Still, it may be tough for the two to have a smooth partnership in anything, in the wake of sworn affidavits filed over the last week.One came from CBS Records Chairman Walter Yetnikoff, who will head a committee that will oversee Sony's entertainment division, including both records and movies.
who will be chairman and co-chief executive officer of Time Warner.the merger is complete.
Mr. Ross denied that in his own affidavit, and called Mr. Yetnikoff's remarks "vicious" and his claims "reckless, irresponsible and baseless," saying Warner under his leadership has started a number of businesses in Japan.Mr. Ross said he enjoys "warm professional and personal relationships" with Japanese executives including Sony Chairman Akio Morita, "who has visited my home here.
Still, it may be tough for the two to have a smooth partnership in anything, in the wake of sworn affidavits filed over the last week.despite the acrimony between Mr. Ross and Mr. Yetnikoff, officials of the Time side of Time Warner have reportedly been increasingly interested in a settlement that might yield attractive business opportunities.
as they have more than once.Sony announced its plans to hire Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters.
Talks between the two sides could unravel, of course, as they have more than once since Sony announced its plans to hire Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters.both sides appear to be more willing now to meet each other's terms to resolve the issue.
But both sides appear to be more willing now to meet each other's terms to resolve the issue.although Warner has said it wanted the producers to fulfill the terms of their contract, the producers said in sworn court declarations that they didn't believe the relationship could be repaired after the acrimony of the legal battle.
And the producers said in sworn court declarations that they didn't believe the relationship could be repaired after the acrimony of the legal battle.Warner has said it wanted the producers to fulfill the terms of their contract.
the relationship could be repaired after the acrimony of the legal battle.to exclude Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters from any of the projects they were working on at Warner.
to exclude Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters from any of the projects they were working on at Warner.that doesn't mean Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters might not eventually get their hands on some of their projects.
producers are typically free to take it elsewhere.a studio chooses not to actually make a movie that is in development.
to exclude Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters from any of the projects they were working on at Warner.Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters almost certainly wouldn't be able to participate in future sequels to "Batman," the blockbuster hit they produced for Warner.
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters also almost certainly wouldn't be able to participate in future sequels to "Batman," the blockbuster hit they produced for Warner.in acquiring Guber-Peters Entertainment, Sony will actually get a piece of the profits from "Batman," since the publicly held concern gets certain revenue from the movies Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters produce.
But Sony will actually get a piece of the profits from "Batman.the publicly held concern gets certain revenue from the movies Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters produce.
We believe our decision to plead (guilty) to these charges is responsible and proper.our action today will allow Gulf Power to avoid prolonged, distracting legal proceedings.
for making illegal political contributions on its behalf.The Appleyard Agency allegedly made contributions from 1982 to 1984 to various funds for political candidates.
The Appleyard Agency, for example, allegedly made contributions from 1982 to 1984 to various funds for political candidates.submitted bills to Gulf Power.
The contributions were funded by monthly payments of $1,000 to $2,000 to Appleyard in the guise of a "special production fee" -- in effect, hiding the nature of the payments from the Internal Revenue Service, federal prosecutors said.The government indicated that former Gulf Power senior vice president Jacob F. "Jake" Horton was the mastermind behind the use of the ad agencies -- Appleyard, Dick Leonard Group II Inc. and Hemmer & Yates Corp. -- to make payments to various political candidates from 1981 to 1988.
Mr. Horton, who oversaw Gulf Power's governmental-affairs efforts, died mysteriously in a plane crash in April.learning he might be fired following the uncovering of irregularities in a company audit.
Under the program, dubbed Chivas Class, customers who send in two labels from Chivas bottles will receive an upgrade in seating class on some Trans World Airlines flights.Repeat customers can purchase luxury items at reduced prices.
Under the program, dubbed Chivas Class, customers who send in two labels from Chivas bottles will receive an upgrade in seating class on some Trans World Airlines flights..Repeat customers also can purchase luxury items at reduced prices.at a time of mounting concern over alcohol abuse, some liquor marketers consider Seagram's frequent buyer promotion risky.
you get more.you drink more.
Last year, J&B Scotch offered 500 TWA frequent flier miles in exchange for a label.Dewar's gave discounts on Scottish merchandise to people who sent in bottle labels.
Chivas Class isn't the first such promotion.the scope of Seagram's Chivas promotion sets it apart.
MOST FOOD companies these days are trimming the fat and cholesterol content of their products to appeal to health-conscious consumers.Goya Foods Inc. believes it can milk some sales by bucking the trend.
Goya is selling Leche Fresca in nearly 500 grocery stores and bodegas in New York and parts of New Jersey.it's adding 15 to 20 new outlets a day.
Jewelry displays in department stores were often cluttered and uninspired.the merchandise was, well, fake.
Jewelry displays in department stores were often cluttered and uninspired..And the merchandise was, well, fake.marketers of faux gems steadily lost space in department stores to more fashionable rivals -- cosmetics makers.
As a result, marketers of faux gems steadily lost space in department stores to more fashionable rivals -- cosmetics makers.lately, retailers say, fake has become more fashionable.
But lately fake has become more fashionable.jewelry makers are beginning to use many of the same marketing tricks honed in the aggressive world of cosmetics.
Last year, the total women's fashion jewelry business topped $4.9 billion.it's growing fast, with annual sales gains of more than 10%.
They're hiring models to stroll the aisles sporting their jewels.they're even beginning to borrow a perennial favorite of the beauty business -- offering a gift when consumers make a purchase.
offering a gift.consumers make a purchase.
We've started trying just about anything to keep sales moving in the stores.there are limits.
And jewelry makers are beginning to use many of the same marketing tricks honed in the aggressive world of cosmetics.cosmetics firms still have one big marketing edge: They motivate sales people with commissions.
Northwest Airlines settled the remaining lawsuits filed on behalf of 156 people killed in a 1987 crash.claims against the jetliner's maker are being pursued.
but claims against the jetliner's maker are being pursued.Northwest, a unit of NWA Inc., and McDonnell Douglas Corp. are pursuing counterclaims against each other in the crash near Detroit Metropolitan Airport.
U.S. District Judge Julian A. Cook Jr. announced the settlements.the jury trial was to begin yesterday.
that pilots failed to set the plane's wing flaps and slats properly for takeoff and failed to make mandatory preflight checks that would have detected the error.a cockpit warning system failed to alert the pilots the flaps and slats were not set for takeoff.
Sun Myung Moon, the Korean evangelist-industrialist who in 1954 founded the Unification Church, remains the mystery man behind a multimillion-dollar political and publishing operation based in this country and catering to the American right.there may be less there than meets the eye.
to convert millions of Americans to his unique brand of Christianity.and to make the U.S. part of a unified international theocracy.
More stable industries were to build an economically viable infrastructure for the Moon movement in North America, as they had in Japan and South Korea.he would move his movement to Europe.
More stable industries were to build an economically viable infrastructure for the Moon movement in North America, as they had in Japan and South Korea..Then he would move his movement to Europe.that was not to be.
that the church has 10,000 or more full-time American members and 25,000 "associates." Some estimates have gone as high as 80,000 members.that at its publicity-seeking heights, as when it organized a spectacular Yankee Stadium bicentennial rally in 1976, there actually were only about 2,000 full-time Unification Church members in the U.S.
For a while in the 1970s it seemed Mr. Moon was on a spending spree, with such purchases as the former New Yorker Hotel and its adjacent Manhattan Center; a fishing/processing conglomerate with branches in Alaska, Massachusetts, Virginia and Louisiana; a former Christian Brothers monastery and the Seagram family mansion (both picturesquely situated on the Hudson River); shares in banks from Washington to Uruguay; a motion picture production company, and newspapers, such as the Washington Times, the New York City Tribune (originally the News World), and the successful Spanish-language Noticias del Mundo.these purchases can be misleading.
Those teams of young fund-raisers selling flowers, peanuts or begging outright at traffic intersections brought in somewhere near $20 million a year during the mid-to-late 1970s.those revenues were a pittance compared to the costs of Mr. Moon's lavish international conferences, speaking tours, and assorted land buys.
Virginia Commonwealth University sociologist David Bromley has concluded that profitable operations in the U.S. have been the exceptions rather than the rule.journalists John Burgess and Michael Isikoff of the Washington Post have estimated that at least $800 million was transferred from Japan to the U.S. to deal with the church's annual operating losses in this country.
Start-up costs for the Washington Times alone were close to $50 million.the total amount lost in this journalistic black hole was estimated at $150 million by 1984.
According to veteran watchers of Unificationist affairs, such as Dr. J. Gordon Melton, director of the Institute for the Study of American Religion, almost all operations are being drastically reduced.Mr. Moon now concentrates more on developing his empire in the Far East.
According to veteran watchers of Unificationist affairs, such as Dr. J. Gordon Melton, director of the Institute for the Study of American Religion, almost all operations are being drastically reduced.Mr. Moon now concentrates more on developing his empire in the Far East.
But that was not to be.Mr. Moon is in retreat, refocusing on the Far East.
that the cash portion of its initial funding of $765 million will be depleted next year.that alternative sources of funds will be necessary to meet its obligations.
The trust ultimately expects to receive $2.5 billion from Manville.its cash flow from investments has so far lagged behind its payments to victims.
The trust is considering a sale of its Manville holdings.Manville has the right of first refusal on any sales of its stock held by the trust.
Manville and the trust are discussing the offer.no decision has been made.
In a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the majority holder of Manville acknowledged that the cash portion of its initial funding of $765 million will be depleted next year, and that alternative sources of funds will be necessary to meet its obligations.The filing said the trust is considering a sale of Manville securities in the open market; an extraordinary dividend on the common stock; or a recapitalization of Manville.
All are non-Russian republics along the southern border of the Soviet Union.all but Kirgizia have reported rioting in the past six months.
How is a travel agent going to sell a holiday.he cannot guarantee a return flight.
The two, Szeto Wah and Martin Lee, were deemed unfit.they had condemned China's crackdown on its pro-democracy movement.
The committee is formulating Hong Kong's constitution for when it reverts to Chinese control in 1997.Chinese lawmakers said the two can only return if they "abandon their antagonistic stand against the Chinese government and their attempt to nullify the Sino-British joint declaration on Hong Kong.
the two can only return.they "abandon their antagonistic stand against the Chinese government and their attempt to nullify the Sino-British joint declaration on Hong Kong.
Israeli officials confirmed that Energy Minister Moshe Shahal and his Canadian counterpart, Jake Epp, discussed a possible Israeli purchase of a $1.1 billion Canadian nuclear reactor for producing electricity.a Canadian Embassy official in Tel Aviv said that Canada was unlikely to sell the Candu heavy-water reactor to Israel.
that Canada was unlikely to sell the Candu heavy-water reactor to Israel.Israel hasn't signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
The South Korean government is signing a protocol today establishing formal diplomatic relations with Poland.The two are signing a trade agreement.
that Seoul can loan money to Warsaw.it can "offer experience.
Under the debt-equity program, potential investors will submit sealed bids on the percentage of discount they are willing to purchase the debt at.the bids will be allocated based on these discount offers.
that Imelda Marcos wasn't brought to the U.S. against her will.that marital privileges, which protect spouses from incriminating each other, don't apply in her case.
A federal judge ruled that Imelda Marcos wasn't brought to the U.S. against her will and that marital privileges, which protect spouses from incriminating each other, don't apply in her case.Judge John F. Keenan of New York ordered Mrs. Marcos to turn over to the court all pleadings and documents she may have filed in foreign countries in opposition to U.S. requests for evidence.
that she didn't have to turn over the documents.she was brought here involuntarily.
because she was brought here involuntarily.because providing the materials would violate her marital privilege.
that she didn't have to turn over the documents.providing the materials would violate her marital privilege.
The law is meant to overcome delays caused by defendants' use of foreign procedures to block U.S. requests for records.the documents could involve foreign business dealings or bank accounts.
On the allegation of kidnapping, Judge Keenan wrote, "The suggestion that Mrs. Marcos was brought to this country against her will is unsupported by affidavit or affirmation.The judge said the two marital testimonial privileges cited by Mrs. Marcos don't apply.
The first one permits a witness to refuse to testify against her spouse.that privilege's purpose is "fostering harmony in marriage.
the privilege can no longer apply.Mr. Marcos died Sept. 28.
The second marital privilege cited by Mrs. Marcos protects confidential communications between spouses.that privilege is meant to protect private utterances -- not litigation papers filed with foreign governments, as Mrs. Marcos's attorneys maintained.
he agreed with one of her concerns: that turning over the foreign documents could violate the defendant's constitutional right against self-incrimination.Judge Keenan threw out most of Mrs. Marcos's objections.
he agreed with one of her concerns: that turning over the foreign documents could violate the defendant's constitutional right against self-incrimination.he will examine the Marcos documents sought by the prosecutors to determine whether turning over the filings is self-incrimination.
As a result, he said he will examine the Marcos documents sought by the prosecutors to determine whether turning over the filings is self-incrimination.Judge Keenan directed the prosecutors to show that Mrs. Marcos's Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination won't be violated.
The firms will be registered under Japanese law as foreign legal consultants.their practice with Japanese clients will be limited to advising them on matters of foreign law.
and their practice with Japanese clients will be limited to advising them on matters of foreign law.The office may be able to advise foreign and multinational clients on international law and general matters.
to open a joint office in Tokyo.The Sidley-Ashurst venture will be staffed by another Sidley partner specializing in corporate law, a partner from Ashurst concentrating on acquisitions and a Japanese attorney.
alleging that it intentionally segregated job classifications by sex and paid employees in predominantly female jobs less than males in comparable jobs.The UAW charged that the state applied its own standards for determining pay in a discriminatory manner.
No one could voice an opinion.everybody with more seniority had spoken first.
No one could voice an opinion until everybody with more seniority had spoken first.younger employees -- often the most enthusiastic and innovative -- seldom spoke up at all.
Employees wore identification badges listing not only their names but also their dates of hire..No one could voice an opinion until everybody with more seniority had spoken first.in 1986, the badges and the "don't speak out of turn" rule were abolished -- early steps in a cultural revolution still rolling on with all the subtlety of a freight train.
A rule forbidding staffers to own competitors' cars has been lifted.now many designers drive foreign cars to get useful ideas.
In recent years, Nissan has instituted flex-time work schedules and allowed employees to dress casually, even in blue jeans..A rule forbidding staffers to own competitors' cars has been lifted, and now many designers drive foreign cars to get useful ideas..Nissan's decades-old corporate song filled with references to Mount Fuji has been scrapped in favor of a snappy tune sung by a popular Japanese vocalist.in a Japanese corporate first, Nissan recently opened the first coed company dormitory for single employees at the suburban Tokyo technical center.
We had lots of internal debate about this one.in the end, top management decided to follow the voice of the younger generation.
We had lots of internal debate about this one.But top management decided to follow the voice of the younger generation.
The company's turnaround is far from complete; many crucial tests are just beginning.its surprising progress so far holds important lessons for companies in trouble.
A company's culture can't be radically changed.top management first admits that things have gone badly awry and then publicly leads the charge.
unless top management first admits that things have gone badly awry.and publicly leads the charge.
that was a big deal.a new person got to work on part of the speedometer.
Desperately hoping to spark sales, Nissan transferred 5,000 middle managers and plant workers to dealerships.President Kume ordered everyone from top executives to rookie designers to go "town watching," to visit chic parts of Tokyo to try to gain insights into developing cars for trend-setters.
Desperately hoping to spark sales, Nissan transferred 5,000 middle managers and plant workers to dealerships.President Kume ordered everyone from top executives to rookie designers to go "town watching," to visit chic parts of Tokyo to try to gain insights into developing cars for trend-setters.
One group of middle-aged manufacturing men from the company's Zama plant outside Tokyo was supposed to check out a trendy restaurant in the city.when they arrived at the door, all were afraid to go in, fearing that they would be out of place.
But all were afraid to go in.they arrived at the door.
that he had Nissan's gloomy lobby exhibit refurbished.Nissan borrowed other Honda practices, including an engineering "idea contest" to promote inventiveness.
Such sudden cultural shifts may come across as a bit forced.they seem to be genuine.
but they seem to be genuine.so much so that some older employees have resisted.
They weren't fired.but were neglected.
A year ago, the company completely revamped its near-luxury sedan, the $17,699 Maxima.Since then, Nissan has launched new versions of the $13,249 240SX sporty coupe and 300ZX sports car.
Nissan initially planned to sell just 10,000 Paos.sales have passed 50,000.
but sales have passed 50,000.there's a one-year waiting list for the car.
One is the Pao, a tiny coupe with a peelback canvas top and tilted headlights that give it a droopy-eyed look.there's the S-Cargo, an offbeat delivery van with a snail-like body that inspired its name.
The chairs are S-Cargo seats.a gift shop sells such items as alarm clocks styled like the Pao's oversized speedometer.
Nissan had 29% of the Japanese car market in 1980.beginning a depressing eight-year slide.
Strong sales so far this year are certain to turn the tide.even the 25% market share that Nissan expects in 1989 will leave it far below its position at the beginning of the decade.
Nissan concedes that it won't recoup all its market-share losses in Japan until at least 1995.even that timetable might prove optimistic.
Nissan's pace of new-model hits will slow.arch-rival Toyota unleashes its own batch of new cars.
Nissan concedes that it won't recoup all its market-share losses in Japan until at least 1995, and even that timetable might prove optimistic.in the U.S., Nissan has grabbed 5.2% of the car market so far this year, up from 4.5% a year ago..But even that brings Nissan only to the share it had in 1987, and leaves the company behind its high of 5.5% in 1980 and 1982.
Likewise, in the U.S., Nissan has grabbed 5.2% of the car market so far this year, up from 4.5% a year ago.even that brings Nissan only to the share it had in 1987, and leaves the company behind its high of 5.5% in 1980 and 1982.
The Stanza has been a nonentity compared with Honda's hugely successful Accord and Toyota's Camry.this year, Honda has revamped the Accord and made it a midsized car..Nissan instead has kept its new Stanza a bit smaller than that and cut the base price 6%.
But this year, Honda has revamped the Accord and made it a midsized car.Nissan has kept its new Stanza a bit smaller than that and cut the base price 6%.
at $11,450, Stanza prices start $749 below the predecessor model.have a more-powerful engine.
Nissan's risk is that its low-base-price strategy might get lost amid the highly publicized rebates being offered by Detroit's Big Three.on a new car, a rebate doesn't work well" because it cheapens the vehicle's image.
But "on a new car, a rebate doesn't work well.it cheapens the vehicle's image.
Nissan will remain behind in the subcompact segment.the new Stanza succeeds.
Nissan started advertising Infiniti.the cars hit American showrooms.
The ads have generated some laughs but also plenty of attention.they are so unlike any other U.S. auto advertising.
The ads have generated some laughs but also plenty of attention because they are so unlike any other U.S. auto advertising.Nissan's sales goals for Infiniti are modest compared with Toyota's targets for Lexus.
I got worried.I saw the Lexus sales projections.
I got worried.I saw the Lexus sales projections.
When I saw the Lexus sales projections, I got worried.on reflection he concluded that Nissan is being prudent in following its slow-startup strategy instead of simply copying Lexus.
Infiniti is Nissan's big business move for the 21st century.we're in no hurry to generate large profits right away.
These days Nissan can afford that strategy.profits aren't exactly robust.
Nissan had record net income of 114.63 billion yen ($868 million) in the fiscal year ended last March 31, a remarkable recovery from the 20.39 billion yen of two years earlier, when the company lost money on operations.Nissan expects to earn only 120 billion yen in the current fiscal year, a modest increase of 4.7%.
That gives it an enviable strategic advantage but also plenty of managerial headaches.its rivals catch up.
That gives it an enviable strategic advantage, at least until its rivals catch up, but also plenty of managerial headaches.Nissan's U.S. operations include 10 separate subsidiaries -- for manufacturing, sales, design, research, etc. -- that report separately back to Japan.
For example, Nissan's U.S. operations include 10 separate subsidiaries -- for manufacturing, sales, design, research, etc. -- that report separately back to Japan.in July, Nissan's Tennessee manufacturing plant beat back a United Auto Workers organizing effort with aggressive tactics that have left some workers bitter.
We are in a transitional phase from being a Japanese company to becoming an international company based in Japan.Perhaps the biggest challenge will be to prevent a return to its former corporate rigidity as its recovery continues.
Perhaps the biggest challenge, however, will be to prevent a return to its former corporate rigidity.its recovery continues.
We are still only half way through the turnaround of this company.there are many more things to do.
We are still only half way through the turnaround of this company.there are many more things to do.
We are still only half way through the turnaround of this company, and there are many more things to do.that "the momentum we have generated is unstoppable.
Mr. Azoff hasn't named the company yet.any records it produces will be distributed by Warner.
he chose Warner, the largest record company.their standing in the entertainment industry is second to none.
The White House is purposely not calling the meeting a summit.there won't be any expectation of detailed negotiations or agreements.
The White House is purposely not calling the meeting a summit so that there won't be any expectation of detailed negotiations or agreements.that the unexpected meeting was scheduled at Mr. Bush's request because of his preference for conducting diplomacy through highly personal and informal meetings with other leaders.
that neither he nor Mr. Gorbachev expects any "substantial decisions or agreements.that the purpose is simply for the two to get "better acquainted" and discuss a wide range of issues without a formal agenda.
A face-to-face meeting with Mr. Gorbachev should damp such criticism.it will hardly eliminate it.
Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine), who has been the most prominent Democratic critic of Mr. Bush's handling of the Soviet relationship, praised the president for arranging the meeting.he added: "The mere fact of a meeting doesn't deal with the substance of policy.
they found it useful, I would say even necessary, to hold an interim informal meeting.the two sides plan to hold a full-scale summit in late spring-early summer next year.
that doesn't mean they will be without an agenda.no specific agreements are expected.
their talks would include human rights, Soviet reforms, regional disputes, relations with allies, economic cooperation, arms control, and joint efforts to fight narcotics, terrorism and pollution.the two leaders cover the subjects that have been featured in lower level U.S.-Soviet meetings.
that three million Soviets have lost their jobs as a result of perestroika.the number could grow to 16 million by the year 2005.
Economists in Moscow are now proposing that the state start a system of unemployment benefits.one Bush administration official knowledgeable about the summit plan cautioned against assuming that there will be bold new initiatives on the Soviet economy or other issues.
that there will be bold new initiatives on the Soviet economy or other issues.This is vintage George Bush.
that the U.S. should show more willingness to cut sea forces -- Washington's area of greatest superiority.the Kremlin follows through on announced plans to cut land forces -- the Soviets' area of greatest strength.
That meeting sent shivers through the Western alliance.Mr. Reagan was pulled into discussing the possible elimination of nuclear weapons without consulting American allies.
Mr. Bush said that he initiated talks with the Soviets on the informal meeting by sending a proposal to Mr. Gorbachev last July, which the Soviet leader readily accepted.word of the possible session was closely held by the president and a handful of top aides, and word of it didn't reach many second-level officials until the past few days.
But word of the possible session was closely held by the president and a handful of top aides.word of it didn't reach many second-level officials until the past few days.
But word of the possible session was closely held by the president and a handful of top aides, and word of it didn't reach many second-level officials until the past few days.many senior officials had been insisting for weeks that Mr. Bush wasn't interested in such an informal get-together.
it actually was the arguments of leaders within the Soviet bloc itself that led the president to seek the December meeting.President Bush's political critics at home have been urging him to open a more direct dialogue with Mr. Gorbachev.
Mr. Bush drafted a letter to Mr. Gorbachev suggesting an informal get-together to precede their formal summit next year.flying home from those discussions.
Banca Nazionale del Lavoro said its potential losses from lending to Iraq could reach 1.175 trillion lire ($872 million).BNL reported that its Georgia branch had taken on loan commitments topping $3 billion without the Rome-based management's approval.
State-owned BNL, Italy's largest bank, has filed charges against the branch's former manager, Christopher Drogoul, and a former branch vice president, alleging fraud and breach of their fiduciary duties.BNL said that its board had approved "after an in-depth discussion," a letter to the Bank of Italy outlining measures the state-owned bank has taken or plans to take to improve controls on its foreign branches.
The central bank had ordered BNL to come up with a suitable program by yesterday.Bank of Italy has ordered BNL to shore up its capital base to account for potential foreign loan losses, and the Rome bank has outlined a 3 trillion lire capital-raising operation.
Bank of Italy has also ordered BNL to shore up its capital base to account for potential foreign loan losses.the Rome bank has outlined a 3 trillion lire capital-raising operation.
Maybe he didn't start it.Mohandas Gandhi certainly provided a recognizable beginning to non-violent civil disobedience as we know it today.
His policies went beyond his control and resulted . . . in riots and disturbances.and a renewed campaign of civil disobedience "resulted in rioting and a second imprisonment.
I am not a proponent of everything Gandhi did.some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power, and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them.
but some of his law breaking was justified.India was then under occupation by a foreign power, and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them.
because India was then under occupation by a foreign power.Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them.
but some of his law breaking was justified because India was then under occupation by a foreign power, and Indians were not able to participate fully in decisions that vitally affected them.It is difficult to justify civil disobedience, non-violent or not, where citizens have full recourse to the ballot box to effect change.
for breaking the law.some individual or group disagrees with it.
The case of Rosa Parks, the black woman who refused to sit at the back of the bus, comes to mind as an illustration.most cases of non-violent civil disobedience are not nearly so benign.
It is true that both are non-violent.there is a fundamental difference between them.
The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience.before we get on with that, let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations.
but let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations.we get on with that.
They are useful to call public attention to grievances.they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute.
Demonstrations are particularly apt to degenerate into criminal conduct.they leave the site of the grievance and become mobile.
Demonstrations are particularly apt to degenerate into criminal conduct.they leave the site of the grievance and become mobile.
The crimes may appear small.the prices can be huge.
and will not move.the authorities carry them away.
The demonstration was non-violent and involved only a simple misdemeanor.its impact on that individual was violent and terminal.
The demonstrators have been non-violent.the result of their trespasses has been to seriously impair the rights of others unconnected with their dispute.
that TV has done more than its share to popularize and promote non-violent civil disobedience.the second situation hypothesized above would be simply a case of "chickens coming home to roost.
so the second situation hypothesized above would be simply a case of "chickens coming home to roost.maybe the TV network would lose nothing.
that only harms other people indirectly.does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole.
who urged and supported their defections.giving great help and comfort to the enemy propagandists.
Under the guise of "healing the wounds of the nation," President Carter pardoned thousands of draft evaders.giving dignity to their allegations of the war's "immorality.
who can complain.future generations called upon to defend the U.S. yield to the temptation to avoid the danger of combat by simply declaring the war immoral and hiding until it is over.
and hiding.it is over.
It is difficult, however, to justify civil disobedience, non-violent or not, where citizens have full recourse to the ballot box to effect change The public has a tendency to equate lawful demonstrations with non-violent civil disobedience The subject of this discussion is non-violent civil disobedience; but, before we get on with that, let me make just a few tangential remarks about lawful demonstrations..They are useful to call public attention to grievances, but they have little value in educating anyone about the issues in dispute At best, demonstrations are overused and boringly uninformative; at worst, they can become the stimuli that lead to law breaking Let us look for a moment at another type of non-violent civil disobedience that only harms other people indirectly, yet does irreparable damage to the nation as a whole.I think it important to point out the extraordinarily high visibility of non-violent civil disobedience in these days of intensive media coverage.
Give television a chance to cover live any breaking of the law.no second invitation will be required.
the chance that he is sincere is much greater than if the leader produced the movement.the movement produced the leader.
it is probable that a thorough airing of the dispute by calm and rational debate would have been the better course.you have not.
Mr. Agnew was vice president of the U.S. from 1969.he resigned in 1973.
The quarter-to-quarter comparison was also enhanced by charges taken in the year-earlier period, including $11 million related to the modernization of a pulp and newsprint mill in Alabama.In the 1989 period interest expense and tax rates were lower than a year ago.
The agents will make more than routine inquiries about such items as marital status and dependents; they want to look at living standards and business assets.they also are to see that taxpayers get all allowable tax benefits and to ask if filers who sought IRS aid were satisfied with it.
The agents will make more than routine inquiries about such items as marital status and dependents.But they are to see that taxpayers get all allowable tax benefits and to ask if filers who sought IRS aid were satisfied with it.
Courts have ruled that taxpayers must submit to TCMP audits.the IRS will excuse from the fullscale rigors anyone who was audited without change for either 1986 or 1987.
Long-debated proposals to simplify the more than 150 civil penalties and make them fairer and easier to administer are in the House tax bill.they were stripped from the Senate bill after staffers estimated penalty revenue would fall by $216 million over five years.
But they were stripped from the Senate bill.staffers estimated penalty revenue would fall by $216 million over five years.
But they were stripped from the Senate bill.congressional aides say penalty reform is a strong candidate for enactment, even if not this time around.
penalty reform is a strong candidate for enactment.not this time around.
penalty reform is a strong candidate for enactment.some provisions may be modified.
States are following suit.taxpayer groups are urging legislation in many other states.
its efforts begun in 1989 have led to the introduction of bills in Massachusetts, Minnesota and Colorado to establish evenhanded procedures affecting all kinds of taxpayers.The group seeks uniformity among states in provisions for taxpayers' rights.
the rate stays 11 cents for each added mile.unaltered: 12 cents for charitable activities and nine cents for medical and moving costs.
HE RODE HIS HOBBY.he couldn't milk it.
The court often weighs deductions of sideline-business costs: Do they stem from a profit-seeking activity or a nondeductible hobby.it's rare to see both functions in one case.
He claimed losses totaling $42,455.the IRS denied them all.
and dropped the sideline.his best brood mare died.
that Givens managed horse-breeding in a businesslike way.he took little businesslike care with his cattle.
which would have to come out of money both hope to use to pay off other bankruptcy claims.paid.
An earlier plan fell apart.Eastern changed its business plan.
in which pilots accepted a substantial pay cut.no other labor group got a raise.
some Machinists union supervisors received a 20% pay raise.Texas Air took control of Eastern.
Eastern has disputed the claim.a federal district court, an appeals court and now the arbitrator have all sided with the pilots.
The general public may not know his name.he's famous -- make that infamous -- in advertising circles.
Now Mr. Achenbaum is joining them.beating them.
They have since mellowed.one senior Young & Rubicam executive, echoing others, said: "I think ad agencies owe Carl {Spielvogel} a vote of thanks for getting him out of the consulting business.
I think ad agencies owe Carl {Spielvogel} a vote of thanks for getting him out of the consulting business.industry executives also believe hiring Mr. Achenbaum is a shrewd move for Backer Spielvogel, a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi.
although one senior Young & Rubicam executive, echoing others, said: "I think ad agencies owe Carl {Spielvogel} a vote of thanks for getting him out of the consulting business.But industry executives believe hiring Mr. Achenbaum is a shrewd move for Backer Spielvogel, a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi.
At Backer Spielvogel, he will work with clients and potential clients on marketing strategies.aside from agency compensation issues, he helped Nissan come up with its positioning and pricing for its new Infiniti line.
At Backer Spielvogel, he will work with clients and potential clients on marketing strategies.His client contacts could prove a gold mine for an agency that has had few new business wins of late.
At Backer Spielvogel, he will work with clients and potential clients on marketing strategies.His client contacts could prove a gold mine for an agency that has had few new business wins of late.
I've done over 40 ad agency searches {for clients}.I have a pretty good notion of what clients are interested in when they look for an agency.
of what clients are interested in.they look for an agency.
Carl has a much higher degree of intimacy with his clients than is ordinary for an agency his size.with Al's record of being a delver and a detail guy, you can see how the two fit.
I picked up the phone and said, `Why don't you come to us.the announcement came out.
Mr. Achenbaum was a senior executive at J. Walter Thompson Co.becoming a consultant in 1974.
the agency made $15 million.a client spent $100 million on TV time.
Ad agencies typically earned a straight 15% commission.Mr. Achenbaum pioneered negotiated fees, which often worked out to less than 15%.
in which an ad agency in some cases must pay a client.it drops the account.
He spent most of his career formulating marketing strategies, but became best-known for chipping away at ad agency compensation.He became so well-known for cutting compensation, however, that clients didn't seek him out for anything else.
But Mr. Achenbaum pioneered negotiated fees, which often worked out to less than 15%..More recently, he negotiated "indemnification" clauses in which an ad agency in some cases must pay a client if it drops the account.He ultimately became so well-known for cutting compensation that clients didn't seek him out for anything else.
Mr. Achenbaum helped Morgan in its recent agency search.he has a long relationship with Hyundai.
he'll be very good at that {new job}.much better at that than at {the price-cutting} he's been doing recently.
he would put his account up for review.WPP's bid were successful.
During the takeover, Mr. Hahn said he would put his account up for review if WPP's bid were successful.he didn't.
For years, the company's ads were tied in with pitches for Cannon sheets or Martex towels, for example.an announcer at the end of the ads would tell customers where to "find the true performance label.
which he founded in 1977.which created ads for the black market.
to retire next year.not necessarily to end his influence.
whose hair is thinning and gray.whose face has a perpetual pallor.
whose hair is thinning and gray and whose face has a perpetual pallor.The prime minister continues to display an energy, a precision of thought and a willingness to say publicly what most other Asian leaders dare say only privately.
It took Zhao Ziyang (former premier and party chief) 10 years to build a team of economists who understood how the Western economies work.now that team is part in exile, part being rusticated and part missing.
That's very sad for China and for Asia.China could have been a good engine for growth, not just for Hong Kong and Taiwan but for Japan, Korea and the rest of Asia.
to liberalize economically.and retain political control.
that the Soviets face a deeper dilemma.they have been more in blinkers than the Chinese.
Mikhail Gorbachev is ahead of China's leaders in his awareness of the world.the Soviet peoples are more introverted than the Chinese.
I would think that the Soviets face a deeper dilemma because they have been more in blinkers than the Chinese -- I mean keeping their people cut off from the outside world.the Soviet Union, while falling far short of the efficiency of a Western economy, may well manage to improve considerably.
the Soviet Union may well manage to improve considerably.falling far short of the efficiency of a Western economy.
America can keep up the present situation -- her markets open for another 15 years, with adjustments, and Japan can grow and not cut back, and so too, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, ASEAN, Australia and New Zealand.in 15 years, the economies of these countries would be totally restructured to be able to almost sustain growth by themselves.
If America can keep up the present situation -- her markets open for another 15 years, with adjustments.Japan can grow and not cut back, and so too, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, ASEAN, Australia and New Zealand.
In such an arrangement, "all benefit.if the Europeans come in, they benefit too.
And they benefit too.the Europeans come in.
We think it isn't such a great burden, that it carries no stigma.we are prepared to do it.
that they want to dispose of.yet they need.
that they want to dispose of and.they need.
They let me down.the Japanese came down {during World War II}.
I don't feel down or done in.I show British serials on my television network or read their books.
I mean it is a normal adult relationship.the Filipinos and the Americans, when I talk to them, there's so much passion about Filipino manhood being diminished as a result of being squatted upon by the Americans and so on.
But the Filipinos and the Americans there's so much passion about Filipino manhood being diminished as a result of being squatted upon by the Americans and so on.I talk to them.
The occasional Englishman tries to put on airs.we let it pass.
It's just comic.they try to pretend they're still the master race.
Many people see it that way.they have just taken it for granted.
To get the Khmer Rouge as part of a process for elections.when they lose, then we can expect China to stop aid.
And then we can expect China to stop aid.they lose.
And when they lose.we can expect China to stop aid.
to have made use of the Khmer Rouge.and discard them.
Everything looked good.neurosurgeon Walter Levy and colleagues carefully cut away a woman's spinal tumor at the Cleveland Clinic in 1978.
Everything looked good as neurosurgeon Walter Levy and colleagues carefully cut away a woman's spinal tumor at the Cleveland Clinic in 1978.she woke up paralyzed.
the probe could improve the diagnosis of brain and nerve disorders such as strokes and multiple sclerosis.holding the promise of safer spinal surgery.
the hand-held electromagnets generate nerve impulses that zip down motor nerves and activate muscles, making, say, a finger twitch.positioned over the brain's motor-control area.
squeeze my fingers as hard as you can.raise your arm.
they don't work at all.a patient is unconscious.
In the 1960s, Mayo Clinic researchers developed magnetic devices to stimulate motor nerves in the hand and other limbs.for brain tests, the unwieldy machines "would have required patients to stand on their heads.
The field took off in 1985.scientists at Britain's Sheffield University developed a handy, compact magnet for brain stimulation.
Since then, at least two commercial versions have been put on the U.S. market.an estimated 500 have been sold.
we can use {the devices} routinely in surgery yet.we're getting close.
The devices could help indicate when surgery would help.paralyzed car-crash victims occasionally have some intact spinal tissues that, if preserved by emergency surgery, enable partial recovery.
that enable partial recovery.preserved by emergency surgery.
For example, paralyzed car-crash victims occasionally have some intact spinal tissues that, if preserved by emergency surgery, enable partial recovery.such operations typically aren't performed because there is no sign right after an injury that surgery would be beneficial.
But such operations typically aren't performed.there is no sign right after an injury that surgery would be beneficial.
The cost {of magnetic stimulators} would seem like peanuts.we could retrieve limb function" in such people.
Scientists caution there is a chance the magnet technique might spark seizures in epileptics.no significant problems have been reported among hundreds of people tested with the devices.
The main sensation is "like a rap on the head.feeling like a puppet jerked with invisible strings.
One apparent side effect is a minor increase in a brain hormone.some doctors who have conducted hours of tests on themselves report temporary headaches.
At the University of Kentucky, a team led by Dean Currier, a physical therapy researcher, is testing the stimulators in conjunction with electric shocks to induce muscle contractions to help prevent wasting of thigh muscles after knee surgery.a Purdue University team led by heart researcher W.A. Tacker hopes to develop ways to magnetically induce cardiac muscle contractions.
The devices might someday serve as temporary pacemakers or restarters for stopped hearts.The devices' most remarkable possibilities involve the brain.
Similar studies are expected to reveal how stroke patients' brains regroup -- a first step toward finding ways to bolster that process and speed rehabilitation.Scientists are exploring memory and perception with the new machines.
the subjects don't recall seeing the first group of letters.the jolt is timed just right.
Joint-research programs have proliferated.U.S. companies seek to spread the risks and costs of commercializing new superconductors and to meet the challenges posed by foreign consortia, especially in Japan.
Joint-research programs have proliferated.U.S. companies seek to spread the risks and costs of commercializing new superconductors and to meet the challenges posed by foreign consortia, especially in Japan.
they signed a three-year, $11 million agreement to collaborate on superconductor research.The Wilmington, Del., chemicals concern signed research superconductor agreements with Oak Ridge National Laboratory and with Argonne National Laboratory.
They pay interest only for 115 months.with principal payments beginning.
As part of the transaction, J.C. Penney will sell a portion of its credit-card receivables to its JCP Receivables Inc. unit.which will transfer them to a master trust.
Here in this new center for Japanese assembly plants just across the border from San Diego, turnover is dizzying, infrastructure shoddy, bureaucracy intense..Even after-hours drag; "karaoke" bars, where Japanese revelers sing over recorded music, are prohibited by Mexico's powerful musicians union.20 Japanese companies, including giants such as Sanyo Industries Corp., Matsushita Electronics Components Corp. and Sony Corp. have set up shop in the state of Northern Baja California.
Keeping the Japanese happy will be one of the most important tasks facing conservative leader Ernesto Ruffo.he takes office Nov. 1, as the first opposition governor in Mexico's modern history.
Mexico, with its desperate need for investment, and Japan, with its huge budget surplus, would seem like a perfect match.the two countries remain separated by a cultural barrier wider than the ocean.
He already has finagled a $2 billion loan from the Japanese government.Mexico urgently needs more help.
For the PRI to stand a chance, Mr. Salinas has to press on with an economic program that so far has succeeded in lowering inflation and providing moderate economic growth.maintaining the key components of his strategy -- a stable exchange rate and high level of imports -- will consume enormous amounts of foreign exchange.
it falls from the tree by itself.the fruit is ripe.
it falls from the tree by itself.the fruit is ripe.
that there is a lot of Japanese money waiting behind the gate.that by slightly opening the gate, that money will enter Mexico.
that there is a lot of Japanese money waiting behind the gate.that by slightly opening the gate, that money will enter Mexico.
Mexico is sending a number of missions to Japan looking for a major breakthrough investment in telecommunications, petrochemicals or tourism.that other Japanese would follow the leader.
Mexico is sending a number of missions to Japan looking for a major breakthrough investment in telecommunications, petrochemicals or tourism.Japanese investors say that their reluctance to invest stems not only from concerns about Mexico's economic outlook, but also reservations about Mexico's recently revamped investment law.
It created special 20-year trusts to allow foreigners 100% ownership in some once-closed industries.It made artful use of semantics, redefining as non-strategic industries some that had been in the national domain.
He could develop the beach through a trust.but is trying have his grandson become a naturalized Mexican so his family gains direct control.
have his grandson become a naturalized Mexican.his family gains direct control.
We must do more to help the Japanese here in Baja.we want them to invest elsewhere.
Plant operators are heartened by Mr. Ruffo's pledge to cut corruption associated with the ruling party officials.Mr. Ruffo frets that an even bigger problem could be protectionism from the U.S.
Half of those polled see the currency trending lower over the next three months.the others forecast a modest rebound after the New Year.
Those with a bullish view see the dollar trading up near 1.9000 marks and 145 yen.the dollar bears see the U.S. currency trading around 1.7600 marks and 138 yen.
the dollar will slip.the Federal Reserve eases interest rates.
the dollar will slip.the Federal Reserve eases interest rates.
Robert White, a vice president and manager of corporate trade at First Interstate of California, agreed with that view and predicted the U.S. federal funds rate will drop to between 7 3/4% and 8% within 60 days from its current level at 8 13/16%.Mr. White predicted a half-point cut in the U.S. discount rate in the near future.
In last month's survey, a number of currency analysts predicted the dollar would be pressured by a narrowing of interest rate differentials between the U.S. and West Germany.in early October the West German central bank raised its discount and Lombard rates by a full percentage point.
Several other European central banks, notably in Britain, followed the West German Bundesbank's lead by raising their own key rates.a week later, Japan raised its official discount rate by a half point to 3.75%.
Several other European central banks, notably in Britain, followed the West German Bundesbank's lead by raising their own key rates.a week later, Japan raised its official discount rate by a half point to 3.75%.
After a surprisingly sharp widening in the U.S. August merchandise trade deficit -- $10.77 billion from a revised $8.24 billion in July and well above expectations -- and a startling 190-point drop in stock prices on Oct. 13, the Federal Reserve relaxed short-term interest rates.predictions that central banks of the Group of Seven (G-7) major industrial nations would continue their massive dollar sales went astray, as the market drove the dollar downward on its own.
But predictions that central banks of the Group of Seven (G-7) major industrial nations would continue their massive dollar sales went astray.the market drove the dollar downward on its own, reacting to Wall Street's plunge and subsequent price volatility, lower U.S. interest rates and signs of a slowing U.S. economy.
But predictions that central banks of the Group of Seven (G-7) major industrial nations would continue their massive dollar sales went astray.the market drove the dollar downward on its own, reacting to Wall Street's plunge and subsequent price volatility, lower U.S. interest rates and signs of a slowing U.S. economy.
that uncertainty about U.S. stocks and bonds has made Japanese investors leery of holding those securities in the near term.damping dollar demand.
that uncertainty about U.S. stocks and bonds has made Japanese investors leery of holding those securities in the near term, thus damping dollar demand.once U.S. equities regain some stability, players will move back into dollar-denominated investments, especially Treasury bonds.
But players will move back into dollar-denominated investments, especially Treasury bonds.U.S. equities regain some stability.
whose value rises.interest rates decline.
some panic will be seen.135 is broken.
the dollar to recover within the next three months to around 1.88 marks.U.S. economic data, particularly U.S. trade figures, level off.
he expects U.S. interest rates to decline, dragging the dollar down to around 1.80 marks by the end of January after a short-lived dash to 1.87 marks by the end of November.I'm not one of these great dollar bears you see more of these days.
that the new chancellor, John Major, will take a tough line in his autumn statement later this month, helping to underpin the pound.the currency will remain at risk.
West Germany will repeal the unpopular turnover tax on securities transactions as of Jan. 1, 1991.the government will repeal the 1% transaction tax on the first-time purchase of stakes in companies.
The securities-turnover tax has been long criticized by the West German financial community.it tends to drive securities trading and other banking activities out of Frankfurt into rival financial centers, especially London, where trading transactions isn't taxed.
The tax has raised less than one billion marks ($545.3 million) annually in recent years.the government has been reluctant to abolish the levy for budgetary concerns.
the government will lose.the tax disappears.
guarantees its abolition.the current center-right coalition loses the elections in December 1990.
an increase to $4.25 an hour over three years.and accompanied by a lower wage for the first six months of a job.
that this administration will stray from its own course on this and other issues.they simply stay the course.
Chemical said Steven Edelson resigned recently.one individual close to the situation said the resignation was forced.
The head trader of Chemical Banking Corp. 's interest-rate options group has left the company, following valuation errors that resulted in a $33 million charge against its third-quarter results.Chemical confirmed that it took an undisclosed charge in the second quarter for losses on forward-rate agreements involving foreign currency written by its branch in Frankfurt, West Germany.
the second-quarter charge was "not material.that no personnel changes were made as a result.
the second-quarter charge was "not material.and that no personnel changes were made.
they echo a 1987 incident in which Bankers Trust New York Corp. restated the value of its foreign exchange options contracts downward by about $80 million.the incidents involving interest-rate options and forward-rate agreements are unrelated.
These complex products require close monitoring.each must be valued separately in light of current market conditions.
he acquired a treasure-trove of Americana along with a well-known but ailing security business: Pinkerton's Inc.Thomas W. Wathen went big league last year.
There was a wanted poster offering "Rewards for the Arrest of Express and Train Robbers Frank James and Jesse W. James" and the original Pinkerton's logo with an open eye and the inscription "We Never Sleep," which inspired the phrase "private eye.there were two gold watches once owned by Allan Pinkerton.
Then there were two gold watches once owned by Allan Pinkerton.there were supposed to be three.
that it can also bring a host of unforeseen problems.acquiring a big brand-name company can be a shortcut to growth.
that while acquiring a big brand-name company can be a shortcut to growth.it can bring a host of unforeseen problems.
Over the next 20 years, California Plant Protection opened 125 offices around the country.although California Plant Protection was netting bigger and bigger clients it still didn't have the name recognition of Pinkerton's.
Yet it still didn't have the name recognition of Pinkerton's.California Plant Protection was netting bigger and bigger clients.
Yet although California Plant Protection was netting bigger and bigger clients it still didn't have the name recognition of Pinkerton's.when American Brands Inc. decided to sell the unit in 1987 as part of a divestiture of its food and security industries operations, Mr. Wathen saw a chance to accomplish several objectives.
So Mr. Wathen saw a chance to accomplish several objectives.American Brands Inc. decided to sell the unit in 1987 as part of a divestiture of its food and security industries operations.
he could easily merge Pinkerton's operations with his own.slashing overhead costs.
he could easily merge Pinkerton's operations with his own while slashing overhead costs.the two already operated in many of the same cities.
He could acquire a staff of loyal Pinkerton's employees, many of whom had spent their entire careers with the firm, he could eliminate a competitor.he could get the name recognition he'd wanted.
Mr. Wathen saw a chance to accomplish several objectives.Mr. Wathen relished the chance to demonstrate an entrepreneur like himself, who'd spent his whole career in the security business, could run Pinkerton's better than an unfocused conglomerate or investment banker.
Mr. Wathen also relished the chance to demonstrate an entrepreneur like himself, who'd spent his whole career in the security business, could run Pinkerton's better than an unfocused conglomerate or investment banker.there were hitches, not the least of which was that he proceeded almost blindly in doing the $95 million acquisition, which was completed in January 1988.
it might have scared us off.we had.
Pinkerton's had locked itself into low-price contracts to win new business, with no hope of profitability until the contracts expired.regional offices were "egregiously overstaffed.
One office had 19 people doing the work of three.half of the employees had company automobiles.
the new Pinkerton's will have sales of about $610 million this year and operating profit roughly double the industry average of 2%-3% of sales.divesting itself of $120 million of unprofitable business.
He began by closing 120 of the combined companies' 260 offices in two months, eliminating about 31% of the company's 2,500-person adminstrative staff, including more than 100 sales positions..He shut down the company's tony New York headquarters.Mr. Wathen raised Pinkerton's rates.
Next, Mr. Wathen raised Pinkerton's rates.he got rid of low-margin businesses.
Next, Mr. Wathen raised Pinkerton's rates.he got rid of low-margin businesses.
Mr. Wathen, who says Pinkerton's had a loss of nearly $8 million in 1987 under American Brands, boasts that he's made Pinkerton's profitable again.Mr. Wathen's team still must pay down about $82 million of long-term bank debt from the acquisition within the next four years.
Last year, earnings of the combined companies didn't cover debt service.Pinkerton's was forced to borrow $20 million of subordinated debt.
Last year, earnings of the combined companies didn't cover debt service.Pinkerton's was forced to borrow $20 million of subordinated debt.
We wouldn't have had to refinance.a lot of the problems hadn't been there.
the firm will be able to service debt.and turn a modest profit.
We have previously had discussions with representatives of Pinkerton's Inc. concerning the {sale of the company}.we concluded that we did not have liability under the contract.
we have no further comment.this is now a litigation matter.
that American Brands misrepresented the financial condition of Pinkerton's before the sale, failed to disclose pending lawsuits and material contracts in which Pinkerton's was in default, hadn't registered the Pinkerton's name and trademark in the United Kingdom and didn't tell California Plant Protection about some labor controversies.then there's the case of the missing gold watch.
that American Brands misrepresented the financial condition of Pinkerton's before the sale, failed to disclose pending lawsuits and material contracts in which Pinkerton's was in default, hadn't registered the Pinkerton's name and trademark in the United Kingdom and didn't tell California Plant Protection about some labor controversies.And there's the case of the missing gold watch.
The key to Pinkerton's future will be sticking to what it does best -- being a security company.The company is renewing its emphasis on investigations, particularly undercover investigations for corporations.
that side of the business has traditionally been the more "glamorous" of the two and it carries historical and sentimental value.investigations now account for only about 5% of Pinkerton's total revenue.
that side of the business has traditionally been the more "glamorous" of the two.it carries historical and sentimental value.
Farm prices in October edged up 0.7% from September.raw milk prices continued their rise.
Farm prices in October edged up 0.7% from September.raw milk prices continued their rise.
Broiler prices fell 6.5 cents in October to 30.6 cents a pound.turkey prices rose 1.2 cents a pound to 38.5 cents.
Hogs rose $3.40 to $46.80 a hundredweight in October.beef cattle slipped 80 cents to $67.40 for each hundred pounds and calves dropped 90 cents to $90.20.
while beef cattle slipped 80 cents to $67.40 for each hundred pounds.calves dropped 90 cents to $90.20.
Soybeans averaged $5.28 a bushel, down 42 cents from September; corn averaged $2.20, down seven cents.sorghum grain averaged $3.61 for each hundred pounds, down 19 cents, according to the department.
the offer will proceed.the Bermuda Supreme Court lifts or modifies an interim injunction restraining the company from buying its shares.
Last week, housing lobbies persuaded Congress to raise the ceiling to $124,875, making FHA loans more accessible to the well-to-do.it does that at the cost of deepening the taxpayer's exposure if the FHA is forced to pay for more loans going sour.
of deepening the taxpayer's exposure.the FHA is forced to pay for more loans going sour.
But it does that at the cost of deepening the taxpayer's exposure if the FHA is forced to pay for more loans going sour.the higher mortgage ceiling is only the starter kit for what Senator Alan Cranston and Majority Leader George Mitchell have in mind for housing.
the FHA can wind up lending more than a house is worth.a purchaser can use an FHA loan to finance all points and closing costs.
many borrowers would be better off walking away from their homes and leaving taxpayers with the losses.housing prices continue to fall.
A group of 27 Senators has written Mr. Kemp urging him to reject Cranston-Mitchell and focus on programs that empower the poor rather than create vast new government obligations.even if he agrees, Mr. Kemp doesn't write the nation's housing law.
But Mr. Kemp doesn't write the nation's housing law.he agrees.
But Mr. Kemp doesn't write the nation's housing law.he agrees.
Congress does.the majority of Members cynically view the current discrediting of HUD as mainly a chance to shove through their own slate of projects.
that Mr. Pierce is only part of the problem.a part that's gone.
Members of Congress will "have to start looking into, and doing something about, the practices of their colleagues.HUD is to be reformed.
Proponents of expanding FHA programs say they merely want to help home buyers who are frozen out of high-priced markets.the FHA program is hemorrhaging bad loans.
Jack Kemp has submitted a package of reforms.they are surely headed for the Capitol Hill sausage-grinder.
A final agreement has not been signed.the moves will not have a material effect on the company.
that halves its huge deficit with cuts in defense spending and capital outlays.striving to improve supplies to frustrated consumers.
that halves its huge deficit with cuts in defense spending and capital outlays.striving to improve supplies to frustrated consumers.
they had made a good start.that the most difficult work was still ahead.
it will be able to halve this year's 120 billion ruble (US$193 billion) deficit.the government can stick with them.
At times I sequester my mind.I must think with precision.
Detached from all other thoughts.trying to reach a decision.
At times I sequester my mind.When I must think with precision,.Detached from all other thoughts.While trying to reach a decision.often nothing's resolved,.To my frustration and fury:.With pros and cons in limbo,.I feel like a hung jury.
and nobody expects the U.S. to rush toward radical restructuring of the health-care system.there are signs that labor-management cooperation could change the politics of health-care legislation and the economics of medicine.
business executives are dealing with congressional Democrats who champion health-care revision.the Bush administration isn't taking the initiative on health issues.
At 11.1% of gross national product, U.S. health costs already are the highest in the world.Japan's equal 6.7% of GNP, a nation's total output of goods and services.
Labor is upset.many companies are using higher employee insurance premiums, deductibles and co-payments to deflect surging medical costs to workers.
They hope they can buy some government cost discipline.this is a false hope.
No magic bullet will be discovered next year, an election year.1991 could be a window for action.
Any major attempt to revamp the health-care system is likely to trigger opposition from politically powerful interest groups, particularly the American Medical Association, and perhaps from the public as well.Congress takes steps that patients fear will limit the availability of care.
to measure the effectiveness of medical treatments.and to draft medical-practice guidelines.
that such standards will improve treatment.limiting unnecessary tests and medical procedures.
This involves trade-offs.{it} cuts against the grain of existing consumer and even provider conceptions of what is `necessary.
This involves trade-offs.{it} cuts against the grain of existing consumer and even provider conceptions of what is `necessary.
The NAM embraces efforts to measure the effectiveness of medical treatments and then to draft medical-practice guidelines.The AFL-CIO embraces treatment guidelines.
The AFL-CIO also embraces treatment guidelines.it's toying with an approach that would impose health-expenditure ceilings or budgets on the government as a whole and on individual states as a way to slow health-care spending.
the agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval.that it hopes to complete the transaction early next year.
namely, industrial companies can continue bidding for one another.financial buyers such as leveraged buy-out firms will be at a disadvantage in obtaining financing.
The way the world is shaping up, the strategic buyer is going to be the rule.the financial buyer is going to be the exception.
The combined company would have had 1988 sales of $13.1 billion.such a combination also presents great risks.
A Georgia-Pacific acquisition of Nekoosa would create the largest U.S. forest-products company.But such a combination presents great risks.
At a time when most analysts and industry consultants say pulp and paper prices are heading for a dive, adding capacity and debt could squeeze Georgia-Pacific.the industry declines more than the company expects.
At a time when most analysts and industry consultants say pulp and paper prices are heading for a dive, adding capacity and debt could squeeze Georgia-Pacific if the industry declines more than the company expects.any unexpected strengthening of the dollar would hurt Georgia-Pacific because two of Nekoosa's major product lines -- containerboard, which is used to make shipping boxes, and market pulp -- are exported in large quantities.
Moreover, any unexpected strengthening of the dollar would hurt Georgia-Pacific.two of Nekoosa's major product lines -- containerboard and market pulp -- are exported in large quantities.
the acquisition would more than double the company's debt of almost $3 billion.It could be a drag on Georgia-Pacific earnings.
It also could be a drag on Georgia-Pacific earnings.the roughly $1.5 billion in goodwill -- the amount by which the bid exceeds Nekoosa's book value of $1.5 billion -- will have to be subtracted from earnings over a period of decades.
That means goods could be manufactured closer to customers, saving shipping costs.production runs would be longer, cutting inefficiencies from adjusting machinery between production cycles.
Moreover, production runs would be longer, cutting inefficiencies from adjusting machinery between production cycles.Georgia-Pacific could save money in selling pulp, because the company uses its own sales organization while Nekoosa employs higher-cost agents.
And Georgia-Pacific could save money in selling pulp.the company uses its own sales organization while Nekoosa employs higher-cost agents.
because the company uses its own sales organization.Nekoosa employs higher-cost agents.
Mr. Hahn said Georgia-Pacific has accounted in its strategy for a "significant downturn" in the pulp and paper industry, an event that he said would temporarily dilute earnings.he said that even under those conditions, the company still would realize a savings of tens of millions of dollars in the first year following a merger.
Georgia-Pacific owns 349,900 Nekoosa shares and would need federal antitrust clearance to buy more than $15 million worth.U.S. clearance is needed for the proposed acquisition.
The company's chairman, Mr. Laidig, and a group of advisers met at the offices of Wachtel Lipton Rosen & Katz, a law firm specializing in takeover defense.Nekoosa is being advised by Goldman, Sachs & Co.
which stands to receive a $15 million fee.the takeover succeeds, and the law firm of Shearman & Sterling.
Nekoosa's poison pill allows shareholders to vote to rescind it.Georgia-Pacific isn't likely to pursue such a course immediately.
but Georgia-Pacific isn't likely to pursue such a course immediately.that would take 90 to 120 days, and wouldn't affect the provisions of the Maine law.
Canadian Pacific couldn't be reached for comment.MacMillan Bloedel said it hasn't any plans to make a bid for Nekoosa.
that there won't be a flurry of takeovers.the industry's continuing capacity-expansion program is eating up available cash.
that there won't be a flurry of takeovers because the industry's continuing capacity-expansion program is eating up available cash.a foreign paper company with deeper pockets than Georgia-Pacific to end up acquiring Nekoosa, signaling to the rest of the industry that hostile bids are unproductive.
This is a one-time event," said Lawrence Ross of PaineWebber Inc., referring to the Georgia-Pacific bid.many analysts believe that, given the attractiveness of paper companies' cash flows, as well as the frantic consolidation of the paper industry in Europe, there will be at least a few more big hostile bids for U.S. companies within the next several months.
I'm going to go after somebody.someone comes after me.
the industry's capacity-expansion program hindering takeover activity.it's a lot cheaper and quicker to buy a plant than to build one.
Moreover, "it's a lot cheaper and quicker to buy a plant than to build one.a number of analysts said that Japanese paper companies are hungry to acquire additional manufacturing capacity anywhere in the world.
But many analysts believe that, given the attractiveness of paper companies' cash flows, as well as the frantic consolidation of the paper industry in Europe, there will be at least a few more big hostile bids for U.S. companies within the next several months..The buyers, these analysts added, could be either foreign or other U.S.concerns.Shearson Lehman's Mr. Devario said that, to stay competitive, the U.S. paper industry needs to catch up with the European industry.
there have been more than 100 mergers and acquisitions within the European paper industry.the most-recent wave of friendly takeovers was completed in the U.S. in 1986.
Private industry's labor costs rose 1.2% in the third quarter, matching the second-quarter pace.health insurance costs continued to soar.
Private industry's labor costs rose 1.2% in the third quarter, matching the second-quarter pace.health insurance costs continued to soar.
this would have happened two or three years ago.the labor market tightened.
It is a considerably delayed reaction.it's not a severe one at all.
In the 12 months ended in September, wages and salaries of private-sector workers rose 4.4%.health insurance costs spurted by 13.7%.
In the 12 months ended in September, wages and salaries of private-sector workers rose 4.4%.health insurance costs spurted by 13.7%.
Labor costs are climbing at a far more rapid pace in the health care industry than in other industries.wages of private-sector hospital workers leaped 6.6% in the 12 months ended in September, compared with 4.4% for workers in all industries.
Labor costs continued to rise more rapidly in service industries than in goods-producing industries.them rising much more in the Northeast than elsewhere.
it withdrew its offer to acquire Mesa Airlines.the Farmington, N.M., carrier didn't respond to its offer by the close of business yesterday, a deadline StatesWest had set for a response.
it withdrew its offer to acquire Mesa Airlines.StatesWest isn't abandoning its pursuit of the much-larger Mesa.
StatesWest had proposed acquiring Mesa for $7 a share and one share of a new series of StatesWest 6% convertible preferred stock it values at $3 a share.Mesa had rejected a general proposal from StatesWest to combine the two carriers in some way.
A shiny new takeover deal sparked a big rally in stock prices.Bond prices edged higher.
Prices of other paper makers rose sharply.Georgia-Pacific fell $2.50 a share, to $50.875.
that opportunities increase for others to engage in the controversial practice.the big brokerage firms back out of program trading for their own accounts or for clients.
profits could remain disappointing.the Federal Reserve eases interest rates soon to stimulate the economy.
Yesterday's major economic news -- a 0.2% rise in the September index of leading economic indicators -- had little impact on financial markets.the next important piece of news on the economy's health -- this morning's release of the national purchasing manager's survey for October -- could prompt investors into action.
it could further depress bond prices while bolstering stock prices and the dollar.the national survey confirms a pickup in the manufacturing sector.
it could further depress bond prices.bolstering stock prices and the dollar.
it could further depress bond prices.bolstering stock prices and the dollar.
The rally notwithstanding, there are plenty of worries about the short-term course of stock prices.bond investors are laboring under the onus of a national debt ceiling debate.
the Nov. 79 schedule could be delayed unless Congress and the president act soon to lift the nation's debt ceiling.the Treasury is expected to announce details of its November quarterly refunding operation today.
the Nov. 79 schedule could be delayed.Congress and the president act soon to lift the nation's debt ceiling.
The company didn't specify reasons for the strong earnings gain.Bouygues said its first-half profit isn't indicative of the full-year trend because of the highly seasonal nature of many of the company's activities.
The campaign, a patriotic celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Bill of Rights, doesn't mention cigarettes or smoking.even before it begins, the campaign is drawing fire from anti-smoking advocates, who criticize Philip Morris's attempt to bolster its beleaguered image by wrapping itself in the document that is a cornerstone of American democracy.
But the campaign is drawing fire from anti-smoking advocates.it begins.
that its name recognition among most consumers remains unusually low.its array of brands -- including Maxwell House coffee, Jell-O, Cheez Whiz, and Miller beer -- blanket supermarket shelves.
it follows they'll think well of our products.they think well of the company through our support of the Bill of Rights.
this has nothing to do with cigarettes, nor will it ever.Philip Morris typically tries to defend the rights of smokers with free-choice arguments.
this has nothing to do with cigarettes.will it ever.
this has nothing to do with cigarettes, nor will it ever," the spokesman says.some anti-smoking activists disagree.
I'm outraged.this company is portraying itself at the heart of American culture and political freedom and in fact it's a killer.
because this company is portraying itself at the heart of American culture and political freedom.in fact it's a killer.
because this company is portraying itself at the heart of American culture and political freedom.and it's a killer.
Many marketers say Philip Morris's approach will be effective.they agree that the ads' implied smoking message is unmistakable.
that's brilliant.you can do that and at the same time send a message that supports your business.
RJR Nabisco Inc. and American Brands Inc. say they have no plans to follow Philip Morris's lead.RJR Nabisco is currently under fire for having sent 80-second videotapes touting its Now brand to consumers who smoke American Brands' Carltons.
The Nasdaq Composite Index surged 4.26, or about 0.94%, to 455.63.the move lagged a stronger rise in New York Stock Exchange issues.
The Big Board's composite index was up more than 1.4%.the Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped 1.6%.
Microsoft added 2 1/8 to 81 3/4.Oracle Systems rose 1 1/2 to 23 1/4.
Technology stocks woke up.the rise may be yet another "one-day phenomenon.
Technology stocks bore the brunt of the OTC market's recent sell-off.traders say it's natural that they rebound sharply now that the market has turned around.
Technology stocks bore the brunt of the OTC market's recent sell-off.traders say it's natural that they rebound sharply now that the market has turned around.
it's natural that they rebound sharply.the market has turned around.
it's natural that they rebound sharply.the market has turned around.
it's natural that they rebound sharply now that the market has turned around.conservative investors would do well to sell into the strength.
They are always the first to be sold.people are taking profits.
They are always the first to be sold when people are taking profits.people are most scared of the high-technology stocks.
rallies in the group historically have lifted the market.weakness in the sector often sank unlisted share prices broadly.
Analysts say rallies in the group historically have lifted the market, while weakness in the sector often sank unlisted share prices broadly.increasing volatility in the sector has exhausted investors who try to follow its dips and swings.
The stocks have been pummeled repeatedly by inventory gluts and disappointing earnings.the industry matures and slows.
The technology sector of the Dow Jones Equity Market Index has risen only about 6.24% this year.the Nasdaq Composite Index has gained 18.35%.
the technology group's gains were more than halved.the composite index lost less than a third of its year-to-date gains in the market's recent decline.
many software and semiconductor stocks have continued to outperform the market.computer stocks have taken the biggest hit from the slowdown in the industry.
Microsoft is up more than 50% this year.Intel is up more than 40%.
The group is divided primarily between software, semiconductors and computers.The technology group is split between large companies and small.
with the biggest stocks trading as blue-chip issues in the institutional marketplace.the smaller stocks churn on their individual merits or faults.
The brokerage firm tracks technology stocks with its Technology Index.the firm also tracks smaller technology companies as a subset of the larger group.
The brokerage firm tracks technology stocks with its Technology Index.But the firm tracks smaller technology companies as a subset of the larger group.
the stocks tend to fall behind.they aren't traded as much as many other issues.
the stocks tend to fall behind.interest-rate-sensitive stocks in general are stalled.
Yesterday, bank stocks lagged behind the overall OTC market.that the recent slide in bank and thrift stocks was at least halted yesterday.
Jaguar topped the most-active list.its American depository receipts climbed 1 3/4 to 13 5/8 with more than 6.6 million ADRs traded.
it would waive its "golden share" in the luxury auto maker.shareholders vote to allow a suitor to acquire more than 15% of the company.
It surged 2 3/4 to 6 on volume of more than 1.7 million shares.the company agreed to be acquired by Japan's Chugai Pharmaceutical for about $110 million -- almost double the market price of Gen-Probe's stock.
Priam Corp. lost 5/32 to 3/32.filing for protection from its creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
Dycom Industries gained 3/4 to 16 3/4.it said it agreed to buy Ansco & Associates and two affiliates for cash and stock.
A permanent smoking ban on virtually all domestic airline routes won approval from the House.which sent to President Bush a nearly $67 billion fiscal 1990 bill including the first construction funds for the space station.
A permanent smoking ban on virtually all domestic airline routes won approval from the House.which sent to President Bush a nearly $67 billion fiscal 1990 bill including the first construction funds for the space station.
The smoking prohibition remains attached to a $27.1 billion transportation bill that must still overcome budget obstacles in Congress.yesterday's action put to rest any lingering resistance from tobacco interests.
On a 394-21 roll call, the House adopted the underlying transportation measure.the bill still faces budget questions because it also is the vehicle for an estimated $3.1 billion in supplemental appropriations for law enforcement and anti-drug programs.
But the bill still faces budget questions.it also is the vehicle for an estimated $3.1 billion in supplemental appropriations for law enforcement and anti-drug programs.
The additional spending pushes the measure more than $2 billion above its prescribed budget ceiling.the House Appropriations Committee leadership must now seek a waiver in hopes of completing action today.
The additional spending pushes the measure more than $2 billion above its prescribed budget ceiling.the House Appropriations Committee leadership must now seek a waiver in hopes of completing action today.
No single bill this year includes more discretionary spending for domestic programs.apart from the space station, the measure incorporates far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market.
The current ceiling on home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration is increased to $124,875 during fiscal 1990.in anticipation of increased lending, the cap on FHA loan guarantees would rise to approximately $73.8 billion.
And in anticipation of increased lending, the cap on FHA loan guarantees would rise to approximately $73.8 billion.the bill gives authority to the Department of Housing and Urban Development to facilitate the refinancing of high-interest loans subsidized by the government under the so-called Section 235 home-ownership program for lower-income families.
This provision met early and strong resistance from investment bankers worried about disruptions in their clients' portfolios.the promise of at least $15 million in new savings helped to forge a partnership between HUD Secretary Jack Kemp and lawmakers wanting to protect their projects elsewhere.
The estimated $1.8 billion for the space station would be double last year's level.total appropriations for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration would grow 16% to nearly $12.4 billion.
A string of costly projects, including the high-speed national aerospace plane and the advanced communications technology satellite, would continue to be developed within these limits.while imposing a statutory cap of $1.6 billion on future spending, the bill would give NASA $30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission, a successor to the Voyager space probe.
And the bill would give NASA $30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission, a successor to the Voyager space probe.imposing a statutory cap of $1.6 billion on future spending.
And the bill would give NASA $30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission, a successor to the Voyager space probe.imposing a statutory cap of $1.6 billion on future spending.
A permanent smoking ban on virtually all domestic airline routes won approval from the House, which separately sent to President Bush a nearly $67 billion fiscal 1990 bill including the first construction funds for the space station.the National Science Foundation is promised a 7.7% increase to bring its appropriations to $2.07 billion.
Separately, the National Science Foundation is promised a 7.7% increase to bring its appropriations to $2.07 billion.while pursuing these initiatives, Congress and the White House are squeezed too by steady increases -- $551 million -- in veteran's medical care.
And Congress and the White House are squeezed too by steady increases -- $551 million -- in veteran's medical care.pursuing these initiatives.
The result is that all sides resort to sleight of hand to make room for competing housing and environmental programs.the commitments now will drive excess spending into fiscal 1991.
The result is that all sides resort to sleight of hand to make room for competing housing and environmental programs.the commitments now will drive excess spending into fiscal 1991.
Senior members of the House Budget Committee are reduced in frustration to raising doomed parliamentary obstacles to individual bills.admit that much of the disorder now stems from the fiscal legerdemain associated with their own summit agreement with the White House this past spring.
It's hard to get the administration's attention on anything.the whole agreement was built on gimmickry.
Senate Appropriations Committee Chairman Robert Byrd (D., W.Va.) strongly resisted deeper cuts sought by the House.at a time when the White House wants to kill the entire program, Republicans have been among its leading champions.
Sen. Pete Domenici (R., N.M.), the ranking Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, used his influence to preserve more than $132,000 in subsidies for air service to Sante Fe, N.M.more than $2.1 million would go for service to eight communities in the western Nebraska district of GOP Rep. Virginia Smith on the House Appropriations Committee.
that nearly 40% of its revenues come from the subsidies that, in some cases, exceed the cost of a ticket.a passenger can fly from Chardon, Neb., to Denver for as little as $89 to $109, according to prices quoted by the company..But given the few number of users, the cost to the federal government per passenger is estimated at $193, according to House and Senate appropriations committees.
For example, a passenger can fly from Chardon, Neb., to Denver for as little as $89 to $109, according to prices quoted by the company.given the few number of users, the cost to the federal government per passenger is estimated at $193, according to House and Senate appropriations committees.
The House action yesterday came.the Senate remained mired in difficulties over a $17.25 billion measure covering the budgets for the State, Commerce, and Justice departments in fiscal 1990.
but has now provoked jurisdictional fights with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, which jealously protects its prerogatives over operations at the State Department.The same jealousy can breed confusion in the absence of any authorization bill this year.
House and Senate appropriators sought to establish a Nov. 30 deadline after which their bill would become the last word on how funds are distributed.on a 53-45 roll call this provision was stripped from the bill last night.
But on a 53-45 roll call this provision was stripped from the bill last night.Foreign Relations Chairman Claiborne Pell (D., R.I.) complained that it was an intrusion on exclusive powers vested in his panel for more than three decades.
analysts were free to pick a number.the value of its assets wasn't known.
Throw in its railroad, minerals, pipeline and oil assets.the Chicago-based conglomerate should be worth 30 a share.
Throw in its railroad, minerals, pipeline and oil assets.the Chicago-based conglomerate should be worth 30 a share.
and the Chicago-based conglomerate should be worth 30 a share.why should holders expect to realize that presumed "worth.
With real estate experts Olympia & York and Samuel Zell's Itel owning close to 40% of Santa Fe's stock, management was under pressure -- in a favored phrase of Wall Street -- to quickly "maximize values.value, it turns out, is only what a buyer will pay.
But value, it turns out, is only what a buyer will pay.with the company's recent announcement that it is contemplating a partial sale of its real estate, the values suddenly look poorer.
the imputed value of the real estate itself is close to $3 billion.the real estate unit also includes debt.
it would have a value of $1.65 billion.the railroad is valued on a private market basis -- at the same multiple of earnings as in the recent sale of CNW.
A compromise between bulls and bears puts remaining assets and cash -- including its 44% stake in its publicly traded pipeline -- at $2 billion.Santa Fe has $3.7 billion in debt.
Santa Fe also has $3.7 billion in debt.its railroad lost a $750 million antitrust suit.
which is on appeal.which could be settled for one-third that amount.
That nets out to about $17 a share for the company on a private market basis.Santa Fe, currently trading at 18 7/8, isn't likely to realize private market values by selling assets, because the tax against it would be onerous.
But Santa Fe isn't likely to realize private market values by selling assets.the tax against it would be onerous.
But Santa Fe isn't likely to realize private market values by selling assets.Its plan is to spin off the remainder of its real estate unit and to possibly do the same with its mining and energy assets.
that the sum of the parts may be greater than the whole.its businesses are valued in different ways.
Robert D. Krebs, Santa Fe's chairman, argues that since its businesses are valued in different ways, "the sum of the parts may be greater than the whole.it isn't clear why that should be so.
The spinoff argument, after all, reverses the current notion that assets are worth more to private buyers than to public shareholders.real estate usually hasn't traded well under public ownership.
the real estate properties would trade at a discount.the realty unit is spun off.
We believe the real estate properties would trade at a discount . . . after the realty unit is spun off.what about the cost, and risk, of waiting to realize the hypothetical private market values.
he is recalculating the worth of the company's assets.and is sticking to his "buy" recommendation on the belief that he will find "values" of 30 a share.
for any reason I don't have the values.I won't recommend it.
Her recent report classifies the stock as a "hold.it appears to be the sort of hold one makes while heading for the door.
one makes.heading for the door.
the California pension fund is getting a bargain price that wouldn't have been offered to others.The real estate has a higher value than the pending deal suggests.
the pension fund will be a useful political ally in a state where development is often held hostage to zoning boards.most of the unit's real estate is in California.
Since most of the unit's real estate is in California, the pension fund will be a useful political ally in a state where development is often held hostage to zoning boards.with Itel and O&Y on the unit's board, the real estate will be run by "a very unusual group" to say the least.
In other words: The real estate has a higher value than the pending deal suggests And with Itel and O&Y on the unit's board, the real estate will be run by "a very unusual group" to say the least.It is possible that Santa Fe's real estate -- even in a state imperiled by earthquakes -- could, one day, fetch a king's ransom.
It is possible then that Santa Fe's real estate -- even in a state imperiled by earthquakes -- could, one day, fetch a king's ransom.its properties will be developed over 15 to 20 years.
But its properties will be developed over 15 to 20 years.despite Wall Street's rosy talk of quickly "maximizing values," holders could be in for a long wait.
Intelogic Trace Inc. said it is exploring alternatives to maximize shareholder value, including the possible sale of the company.Asher B. Edelman insisted that the announcement didn't have anything to do with the ongoing battle for control of Datapoint Corp.
Intelogic was spun off from Datapoint four years ago.Mr. Edelman took control of Datapoint.
The results surpassed analysts' forecasts, which averaged around #200 million.Marks & Spencer responded in trading on London's Stock Exchange with an eight pence rise to 188 pence.
The results surpassed analysts' forecasts, which averaged around #200 million.Marks & Spencer responded in trading on London's Stock Exchange with an eight pence rise to 188 pence.
Sales increased 11% to #2.5 billion from #2.25 billion.operating profit climbed 13% to #225.7 million from #199.8 million.
Sales increased 11% to #2.5 billion from #2.25 billion.operating profit climbed 13% to #225.7 million from #199.8 million.
Sales in North America and the Far East were inflated by acquisitions, rising 62% to #278 million.Operating profit dropped 35% to #3.8 million.
Federal and state thrift examiners said they saw evidence of criminal wrongdoing in the collapse of Lincoln Savings & Loan Association.a California regulator described an attempted "whitewash" by deputies of chief federal regulator Danny Wall.
In a riveting day of hearings before the House Banking Committee, the examiners described finding shredded documents, a mysterious Panamanian subsidiary, millions of dollars funneled into a Swiss bank, and a complacent attitude by Mr. Wall's deputies, one of whom was portrayed as acting more like a public-relations man for the thrift than a federal regulator.A California official said he sent the Federal Bureau of Investigation a packet of documents relating to a previously reported $400,000 contribution from Lincoln's parent solicited by Sen. Alan Cranston (D., Calif.).
Lincoln's principal owner, Charles Keating Jr., and his family drew off at least $34 million from the thrift in salaries, bonuses and proceeds from securities sales.federal authorities seized it earlier this year.
He said the evidence pointed to wrongdoing by Mr. Keating "and others.he didn't allege any specific violation.
the evidence pointed to wrongdoing by Mr. Keating "and others," although he didn't allege any specific violation.he saw evidence that crimes had been committed.
He said 30% of the loans he sampled were "dead meat on the day they were made.The state examiner said supervisors of a parallel federal examination seemed so reluctant to demand write-downs of Lincoln's bad loans that he immediately grew suspicious.
that he immediately grew suspicious.my concerns about a whitewash became even more serious.
You opened the file up.it just jumped at you.
You opened the file up.it just jumped at you.
Federal officials seized the association in April.the parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings.
Federal officials seized the association in April, a day after the parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings.The government brought a $1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others.
Federal officials seized the association in April, a day after the parent corporation entered bankruptcy-law proceedings..The government later brought a $1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others.Rep. Gonzalez has complained that regulators waited far too long ignoring a recommendation from regional officials to place Lincoln into receivership two years before it failed.
a recommendation from regional officials to place Lincoln into receivership.it failed.
State thrift examiner Eugene Stelzer said he found the chief federal examiner Steve Scott to be totally uninterested in one allegedly fraudulent series of transactions.David Riley, a federal examiner who worked under Mr. Scott, said he found his chief oddly upbeat about Lincoln.
that he and other examiners saw "a truck with a sign on it that said it was from the `Document Destruction Center.Lincoln's parent entered bankruptcy proceedings.
They shredded it.it contained financial information about their creditors and depositors.
whether the increase, effective Jan. 1, 1990, will stick.whether other major steelmakers will follow suit.
The increase is on the base price, which is already being discounted by virtually all steel producers.LTV's move marks the first effort by a major steelmaker to counter the free fall in spot prices.
that steel prices, adjusted for inflation, increased only 1.7% between 1981 and the fourth quarter of 1988.the prices of other industrial commodities increased nearly five times as much.
that steel prices, adjusted for inflation, increased only 1.7% between 1981 and the fourth quarter of 1988.the prices of other industrial commodities increased nearly five times as much.
At the same time, steelmakers are trying to invest more to modernize technology and make themselves more competitive.the company is also trying to prevent further price drops.
At the same time, steelmakers are trying to invest more to modernize technology and make themselves more competitive.the company is trying to prevent further price drops.
the company is also trying to prevent further price drops.that LTV may be trying to send a signal to major customers, such as Chrysler Corp. and Whirlpool Corp., that steelmakers need more money.
spot steel prices will continue to fall through early 1990.and reverse themselves.
Mr. Marcus believes spot steel prices will continue to fall through early 1990 and then reverse themselves.He isn't convinced that the price decline reflects falling demand.
He isn't convinced, though, that the price decline reflects falling demand.the world economy remains relatively strong.
that the price decline reflects falling demand.while customers such as steel service centers are continuing to reduce inventories through the fourth quarter, they eventually will begin stocking up again.
And they eventually will begin stocking up again.customers such as steel service centers are continuing to reduce inventories through the fourth quarter.
but began offering sizable discounts over the summer.LTV was the first steelmaker to publicly boost discounts for buyers of cold rolled sheet steel and hot-dipped galvanized sheet steel.
The Treasury plans to raise $2.3 billion in new cash with the sale Monday of about $16 billion in short-term bills to redeem $13.71 billion in maturing bills.it will postpone the auction unless it has assurances of enactment of legislation to raise the statutory debt limit before the scheduled auction date.
it will postpone the auction.it has assurances of enactment of legislation to raise the statutory debt limit before the scheduled auction date.
the contract will be renewed for five more years.by that time, the network reaches 14 million homes.
transplanting a toad's gene into bacteria.which reproduced toad genes.
they saw dollar signs.Boyer met Robert Swanson, an M.I.T.-trained chemist-turned-entrepreneur in 1976.
The next to be cloned, human insulin, had market potential.Genentech licensed it to Eli Lilly, which produced 80% of the insulin used by 1.5 million U.S. diabetics.
The next to be cloned, human insulin, had market potential.Genentech licensed it to Eli Lilly, which produced 80% of the insulin used by 1.5 million U.S. diabetics.
At the time, Genentech had only one profitable year behind it (a modest $116,000 on revenue of $2.6 million in 1979) and no product of its own on the market.the $36 million issue they floated in 1980 opened at $35 and leaped to $89 within 20 minutes.
The trip from the test tube was not without snags.Boyer and Cohen both still university researchers, had to be talked into applying for a patent on their gene-splicing technique -- and then the Patent Office refused to grant it.
Boyer and Cohen, for instance, both still university researchers, had to be talked into applying for a patent on their gene-splicing technique.then the Patent Office refused to grant it.
Boyer and Cohen, for instance, both still university researchers, had to be talked into applying for a patent on their gene-splicing technique.and the Patent Office refused to grant it.
and then the Patent Office refused to grant it.That judgment was reversed by the U.S. Supreme Court.
that it bought 43,000 shares of Cie. de Navigation Mixte, apparently to help fend off an unwelcome takeover bid for the company.that a unit of Framatome S.A. bought Navigation Mixte shares, this purchase covering more than 160,000 shares.
to buy its stock.trading opened Monday.
In addition to Unocal's 153,000 barrel-a-day refinery near Lemont, Ill., the new venture would control 17 distribution terminals, a lubricating-oil blending and packaging plant, and 131 company-owned Unocal service stations.the venture would serve another 3,300 independent Unocal gasoline stations.
Senate leaders traded proposals aimed at speeding action on legislation to narrow the deficit and raise the federal government's debt limit.the major stumbling block remains President Bush's proposal to cut the capital-gains tax rate.
Democrats want the tax provision to be a separate bill, subject to the usual procedural obstacles.Republicans want to try to protect the measure by combining it with two politically popular issues that Democrats could find hard to block.
Democrats want the tax provision to be a separate bill, subject to the usual procedural obstacles.Republicans want to try to protect the measure by combining it with two politically popular issues that Democrats could find hard to block.
Last night Mr. Dole proposed streamlining the fiscal 1990 deficit-reduction bill and passing a long-term extension of the federal debt ceiling without any accompanying amendments.meeting with Mr. Bush and administration officials at the White House.
that a presidential rejection would give their party a valuable issue in next year's congressional elections.that could make it vulnerable to a veto by Mr. Bush.
that the administration would give up its demand for the capital-gains tax cut.faced with a potential default.
it retained the investment banking firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Inc. to act as its financial adviser, assisting in the evaluation of various financial and strategic alternatives, including debt refinancing, raising capital, recapitalization, a merger or sale of the company.The company retained attorney Martin P. Levin, a director of the company and former head of the Times-Mirror Publishing Group, as an adviser.
Stock prices surged.a multibillion-dollar takeover proposal helped restore market players' confidence about the prospects for further deal-making.
Stock prices surged.a multibillion-dollar takeover proposal helped restore market players' confidence about the prospects for further deal-making.
Paper and forest-products stocks were especially strong.the offer for Great Northern Nekoosa by Georgia-Pacific triggered speculation that the industry could be in for a wave of merger activity.
Paper and forest-products stocks were especially strong.the offer for Great Northern Nekoosa by Georgia-Pacific triggered speculation that the industry could be in for a wave of merger activity.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average climbed 41.60 to 2645.08.some late selling caused the market to retreat from session highs.
the buy programs came from very large institutional accounts.that were active in the stock-index futures markets.
Some 1,111 Big Board issues advanced in price.only 448 declined.
Some 1,111 Big Board issues advanced in price.only 448 declined.
Some 1,111 Big Board issues advanced in price and only 448 declined.broader market averages rose sharply.
Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index climbed 5.29 to 340.36, the Dow Jones Equity Market Index added 4.70 to 318.79.the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index climbed 2.65 to.
that other suitors for the company would surface.that the bid would be raised.
The $3.18 billion bid creates a better feeling that there's value in the market at current levels and renews prospects for a hot tape.the market's surge reflected an easing of concerns about volatility because of moves by a number of brokerage firms to curtail or cease stock-index arbitrage.
Traders and analysts alike said the market's surge also reflected an easing of concerns about volatility because of moves by a number of brokerage firms to curtail or cease stock-index arbitrage.traders also said arbitrage-related trading contributed to the market's surge.
the market's surge also reflected an easing of concerns about volatility because of moves by a number of brokerage firms to curtail or cease stock-index arbitrage.arbitrage-related trading contributed to the market's surge, as buy programs boosted prices shortly after the opening and sporadically through the remainder of the session.
arbitrage-related trading contributed to the market's surge.buy programs boosted prices shortly after the opening and sporadically through the remainder of the session.
arbitrage-related trading contributed to the market's surge.buy programs boosted prices shortly after the opening and sporadically through the remainder of the session.
Georgia-Pacific fell 2 1/2 to 50 7/8.most paper and forest-products stocks firmed as market players speculated about other potential industry takeover targets.
but most paper and forest-products stocks firmed.market players speculated about other potential industry takeover targets.
but most paper and forest-products stocks firmed.market players speculated about other potential industry takeover targets.
Within the paper sector, Mead climbed 2 3/8 to 38 3/4 on 1.3 million shares, Union Camp rose 2 3/4 to 37 3/4, Federal Paper Board added 1 3/4 to 23 7/8, Bowater gained 1 1/2 to 27 1/2, Stone Container rose 1 to 26 1/8.Temple-Inland jumped 3 3/4 to 62 1/4.
Pfizer gained 1 7/8 to 67 5/8, Schering-Plough added 2 1/4 to 75 3/4, Eli Lilly rose 1 3/8 to 62 1/8.Upjohn firmed 3/4 to 38.
Pfizer gained 1 7/8 to 67 5/8, Schering-Plough added 2 1/4 to 75 3/4, Eli Lilly rose 1 3/8 to 62 1/8 and Upjohn firmed 3/4 to 38.SmithKline Beecham rose 1 3/8 to 39 1/2.
investor Carl Icahn has recently increased his stake in USX.which reported earnings that were in line with expectations.
Paramount Communications gained 1 1/8 to 55 7/8.losing one point Monday amid rumors of a delay.
BankAmerica climbed 1 3/4 to 30.PaineWebber boosted its investment opinion on the stock to its highest rating.
BankAmerica climbed 1 3/4 to 30.PaineWebber boosted its investment opinion on the stock to its highest rating.
the 20% decline in shares of the bank.the firm lowered its rating in early October.
Hunter will receive 390,000 shares of a new series of Cilcorp convertible preferred stock with a face value of $39 million for the businesses.Cilcorp will assume $22 million of Hunter's existing debt.
Cilcorp Inc., Peoria, Ill., said it agreed to acquire the environmental consulting and analytical service businesses of Hunter Environmental Services Inc. of Southport, Conn.Cilcorp said it plans to purchase as many as 1.4 million shares, or 10% of its common stock outstanding from time to time on the open market and through privately negotiated transactions.
military authorities said they had confiscated the equivalent of more than $1.5 million to make up for the unpaid taxes.residents claimed a victory.
In East Berlin, Communist Party officials considered legalizing New Forum, the country's largest opposition alliance.about 20,000 demonstrators staged protests in three cities to press demands for democratic freedoms.
The House approved a permanent smoking ban on nearly all domestic airline routes as part of a $27.1 billion transportation bill.that must overcome budget obstacles in Congress.
The House approved a permanent smoking ban on nearly all domestic airline routes as part of a $27.1 billion transportation bill that must still overcome budget obstacles in Congress.The chamber sent to Bush a nearly $67 billion fiscal 1990 measure that includes the first construction funds for a space station.
In Washington, the Senate voted to condemn Ortega's threat to cancel the truce.Bush said he would review U.S. policy toward Managua, including the possibility of renewing military aid to the rebels.
South Africa's government dismissed demands by right-wing Conservatives, the nation's main opposition party, for emergency talks on Pretoria's recent tolerance of dissent.The government urged whites to refrain from panic over growing black protests, such as the massive anti-apartheid rally Sunday on the outskirts of Soweto.
The State Department denied asylum to a Vietnamese man who escaped from his homeland by lashing himself to the rudder housing of a tanker for two days in monsoon seas.that the Immigration and Naturalization Service would review the stowaway's request.
Ogden Projects Inc. said net income jumped to $6.6 million, or 18 cents a share, in the third quarter.Ogden Corp. reported third-quarter net income of $27.1 million, or 67 cents a share, more than twice the $13.5 million, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier.
Ogden Projects Inc. said net income jumped to $6.6 million, or 18 cents a share, in the third quarter.Ogden Corp. reported third-quarter net income of $27.1 million, or 67 cents a share, more than twice the $13.5 million, or 34 cents a share, a year earlier.
which has interests in solid-waste recovery and hazardous-waste cleanup.which has interests in building maintenance and management.
the New York Stock Exchange is considering reinstituting a "collar" on program trading that it abandoned last year, according to people familiar with the Big Board.The exchange may step up its disclosure of firms engaged in program trading.
Big Board officials wouldn't comment publicly.in an interview in which he called the stock market's volatility a "national problem," Big Board Chairman John J. Phelan Jr. said, "We are going to try to do some things in the short intermediate term" to help the situation.
that the Big Board has been trying to deal quietly with the issue.that banning computer-assisted trading strategies entirely, as some investors want, would be like "taking everybody out of an automobile and making them ride a horse.
The exchange has a board meeting scheduled for tomorrow.it is expected that some public announcement could be made after that.
Mr. Phelan hasn't been making public remarks in recent days.many people have urged him to take more of a leadership role on the program trading issue.
Early last year the Big Board instituted the collar.a 140-point, one-day drop in the Dow.
that the Big Board is considering a variety of actions to deal with program trading.another big Wall Street brokerage firm joined others that have been pulling back from program trading.
Shearson, which in September was the 11th-biggest program trader on the Big Board, had already suspended stock-index arbitrage for its own account.CS First Boston Inc. 's First Boston Corp. unit, the fifth-biggest program trader in September, is "preparing a response" to the program-trading outcry.
Mr. Phelan is an adroit diplomat who normally appears to be solidly in control of the Big Board's factions.he has been getting heat from all sides over program trading.
I'm guilty of it.bringing the message is a crime.
that his predicting continued volatility is just "how the world is.this doesn't mean he is satisfied with the market's big swings.
Each one has a different agenda.in a special meeting Monday with Mr. Phelan, senior officials of some of the Big Board's 49 stock specialist firms complained that the exchange is no longer representing their interests.
Many specialist firms resent the Big Board's new "basket" product that allows institutions to buy or sell all stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in one shot.the specialists view this as yet another step toward electronic trading that could eventually destroy their franchise.
Many specialist firms resent the Big Board's new "basket" product that allows institutions to buy or sell all stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in one shot.the specialists view this as yet another step toward electronic trading that could eventually destroy their franchise.
The basket product is being supported by some big brokerage firms -- another member of Mr. Phelan's splintered constituency.it has got off to a slow start.
Mr. Phelan has had difficulty convincing the public that the Big Board is serious about curbing volatility.the exchange clearly relishes its role as the home for $200 billion in stock-index funds.
which buy huge baskets of stocks to mimic popular stock-market indexes like the Standard & Poor's 500.which sometimes employ program trading.
The Big Board wants to keep such index funds from fleeing to overseas markets.only as long as it "handles it intelligently.
The Big Board wants to keep such index funds from fleeing to overseas markets.but it "handles it intelligently.
The Big Board wants to keep such index funds from fleeing to overseas markets.but it "handles it intelligently.
Computers have made trading more rapid.that can be fixed with some fine-tuning.
you can slow them down.you {can} speed things up.
Volatility is greater than program trading.volatility won't go away.
it's proper to worry about program trading.it's only a piece of the business.
but it's only a piece of the business.that big institutions have so much control over public investments that they can cause big swings in the market, regardless of index arbitrage.
A lot of people would like to go back to 1970," before program trading I would like to go back to 1970.we're not going back to 1970.
is greater than program trading.that if stock-market volatility persists, the U.S. may lose its edge as being the best place to raise capital.
that the U.S. may lose its edge as being the best place to raise capital.stock-market volatility persists.
a significant number of {U.S.} companies will go over there to raise money.that continues.
The program trading situation seems to have driven individual investors as well as others out of the market.even Europeans are suspicious.
In coming days, when the Big Board formulates its responses to the program-trading problem, Mr. Phelan may take a more public role in the issue.For now Mr. Phelan said: "I refuse to get out there and tell everybody everything is hunky-dory..We have a major problem, and that problem is volatility.
We have a major problem.that problem is volatility.
The compromise proposal would boost the minimum wage to $4.25 an hour by April 1991 from $3.35 now.The legislation includes a lower "training wage" for new workers who are teen-agers.
which abandoned such a "collar" last year.it didn't prevent sharp price swings.
Great Northern Nekoosa reacted coolly to Georgia-Pacific's takeover bid of $58 a share, or $3.19 billion.the suitor said all terms are negotiable.
Stock prices rallied.the Georgia-Pacific bid broke the market's recent gloom.
Stock prices rallied.the Georgia-Pacific bid broke the market's recent gloom.
The Dow Jones industrials finished up 41.60, at 2645.08.The dollar and bond prices closed higher.
Leading indicators rose a slight 0.2% in September, a further indication the economy is slowing but without any clear sign of whether a recession looms.new-home sales plunged 14% in the month.
Leading indicators rose a slight 0.2% in September, a further indication the economy is slowing but without any clear sign of whether a recession looms.new-home sales plunged 14% in the month.
A bidding war for Jaguar became more likely.Britain unexpectedly decided to end restrictions blocking a takeover of the luxury car maker.
A bidding war for Jaguar became more likely.Britain unexpectedly decided to end restrictions blocking a takeover of the luxury car maker.
LTV Steel is boosting prices of flat rolled steel products an average 3%.it's unclear whether the increases, set for Jan. 1, 1990, will stick.
Southern's Gulf Power unit paid $500,000 in fines.pleading guilty to conspiracy to make illegal political contributions and tax evasion.
USX's profit dropped 23% in the third quarter.improved oil results failed to offset weakness in the firm's steel and natural gas operations.
Treasury bonds received an additional boost from news that sales of new single-family homes fell 14% in September.U.S. trading began.
Economists said the report raised speculation that the economic slowdown could turn into a recession, which would pave the way for the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates.later in the day, a report by the Purchasing Management Association of Chicago cast doubt on the recession scenario.
its October index of economic activity rose to 51.6%.having been below 50% for three consecutive months.
A reading below 50% indicates that the manufacturing industry is slowing.a reading above 50% suggests that the industry is expanding.
Bond prices fell.the Chicago report was released.
New two-year notes ended unchanged.three-year and four-year notes were slightly lower.
New two-year notes ended unchanged.three-year and four-year notes were slightly lower.
Municipal bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1/2 point higher.mortgage-backed securities were up about 1/8 point.
Municipal bonds ended unchanged to as much as 1/2 point higher.mortgage-backed securities were up about 1/8 point.
In October 1979 IBM offered $1 billion in debt securities.the Federal Reserve raised interest rates.
The company "can't be bullish.they're doing a sizable 30-year bullet.
IBM might increase the size of the offering to as much as $1 billion.investor demand is strong.
the bonds will come a little richer and in a larger amount.the pricing time arrives.
Treasury prices ended mixed in light trading.Short-term rates were mixed.
Beatrice cut its high-yield offering to $251 million from a planned $350 million.it became clear the company would have to give investors higher yields.
In the two-part offering, $151 million of senior subordinated reset notes were priced at 99.75 and carried a rate of 13 3/4%.the $100 million of senior subordinated floating rate notes were priced to float at 4.25 percentage points above the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR.
In the two-part offering, $151 million of senior subordinated reset notes were priced at 99.75 and carried a rate of 13 3/4%.the $100 million of senior subordinated floating rate notes were priced to float at 4.25 percentage points above the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR.
Since the recent deterioration of the junk-bond market, at least two other junk issuers have said they plan to scale back planned high-yield offerings.several issues have been postponed.
favorable market conditions in September prompted the company to plan more debt than necessary.given the changes in the market conditions that have occurred since then, we decided to sell only the amount needed to proceed with our contemplated recapitalization.
A month ago, when Beatrice first filed to sell debt, the company had planned to offer $200 million of its senior subordinated reset notes at a yield of 12 3/4%.By October market conditions had deteriorated and the reset notes were targeted to be offered at a yield of between 13 1/4% and 13 1/2%.
By October, however, market conditions had deteriorated.the reset notes were targeted to be offered at a yield of between 13 1/4% and 13 1/2%.
By October, however, market conditions had deteriorated.the reset notes were targeted to be offered at a yield of between 13 1/4% and 13 1/2%.
By October, however, market conditions had deteriorated and the reset notes were targeted to be offered at a yield of between 13 1/4% and 13 1/2%.investors demanded stricter convenants.
We were oversold.today we bounced back.
We were oversold.today we bounced back.
There were no {sell} lists.the calendar is lightening up a bit.
West German bonds firmed a bit after Monday's fall.traders said the market remains bearish due to speculation that interest rates could rise again.
Germany's 7% bond due October 1999 was unchanged at 99.35 to yield 7.09%.the 6 3/4% notes due July 1994 rose 0.025 point to 97.275 to yield 7.445%.
Germany's 7% bond due October 1999 was unchanged at 99.35 to yield 7.09%.the 6 3/4% notes due July 1994 rose 0.025 point to 97.275 to yield 7.445%.
British government bonds were little changed.investors awaited an address on economic policy by John Major, the new Chancellor of the Exchequer.
British government bonds were little changed.investors awaited an address on economic policy by John Major, the new Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Britain's benchmark 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 rose 2/32 to 111 1/2 to yield 10.14%.the 11 3/4% notes due 1991 were unchanged at 98 21/32 to yield 12.95%.
Britain's benchmark 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 rose 2/32 to 111 1/2 to yield 10.14%.the 11 3/4% notes due 1991 were unchanged at 98 21/32 to yield 12.95%.
Terms weren't disclosed.industry executives said the units were sold for $40 million.
The Financial Accounting Foundation voted 12-2 that FASB accounting rules supercede GASB rules in regard to utilities, hospitals, and colleges and universities owned by the government.GASB rules apply for other government units.
the government-owned entities were supposed to follow FASB rules.the GASB was founded in 1984, 11 years after the FASB.
the government-owned entities were supposed to follow FASB rules.the GASB superceded them.
The foundation vote is effective for the affected government entities with fiscal years that begin starting next Jan. 1 and makes the financial results of the hospitals, colleges and schools easier to compare with for-profit businesses.it may lead to separate financial reports based on different rules for the government entities under FASB rules and those still under GASB rules.
that the loss was magnified by accounting adjustments.that the company's loss was smaller on a cash basis.
that the loss was magnified by accounting adjustments.that the company's loss was smaller on a cash basis.
that its ability to service debt would be hurt and Avery's shareholder value would "continue to erode.it sold Uniroyal.
that its ability to service debt would be hurt.Avery's shareholder value would "continue to erode.
that its ability to service debt would be hurt.Avery's shareholder value would "continue to erode.
Messrs..Peltz and May will waive their direct salaries and bonuses.Avery makes an acquisition.
Until Avery makes an acquisition, Messrs..Peltz and May will waive their direct salaries and bonuses.For at least the next six months Avery will continue to pay $200,000 a month for management services to a company controlled by Messrs..Peltz and May, according to the proxy material.
it had a 45.2% stake in the Louisville, Ky., fast-food company.that it planned to seek a majority of seats on Rally's nine-member board.
Fujitsu Ltd. said it wants to withdraw its controversial one-yen bid to design a waterworks computer system for the city of Hiroshima.Japan's Fair Trade Commission said it was considering launching an investigation into whether the bid, the equivalent of less than a penny, violates anti-monopoly laws.
Fujitsu Ltd. said it wants to withdraw its controversial one-yen bid to design a waterworks computer system for the city of Hiroshima.Japan's Fair Trade Commission said it was considering launching an investigation into whether the bid, the equivalent of less than a penny, violates anti-monopoly laws.
Eight companies submitted bids.Fujitsu won the contract by essentially saying it would do the job for free.
to wait for the outcome of any government investigation.deciding what to do.
The agency said it monitored Newmark & Lewis's advertised prices before and after the ad campaign, and found that the prices of at least 50 different items either increased or stayed the same.The consumer agency disputed Newmark & Lewis's continuing strategy of advertising "new lower prices" when allgedly there haven't been price reductions since June 1.
of advertising "new lower prices.allgedly there haven't been price reductions since June 1.
On Friday, when only a dozen common stocks hit 52-week highs on the New York Stock Exchange, five were gold-mining issues.another four were utilities.
After all, gold prices usually soar.inflation is high.
After all, gold prices usually soar when inflation is high.Utility stocks thrive on disinflation.
Utility stocks, on the other hand, thrive on disinflation.the fat dividends utilities pay look more attractive when prices are falling (or rising slowly).
because the fat dividends utilities pay look more attractive.prices are falling (or rising slowly).
At first glance, gold and utilities seem strange bedfellows.the two groups have something very important in common.
It's as if investors, the past few days, are betting that something is going to go wrong.they don't know what.
these stocks might well fall back.the stock market and the economy catch their breath and show that they're on firmer footing.
If the stock market and the economy catch their breath and show that they're on firmer footing, these stocks might well fall back.that happened to some extent yesterday, as industrial stocks rebounded, partly on news of takeovers in the paper industry.
Indeed, that happened to some extent yesterday.industrial stocks rebounded, partly on news of takeovers in the paper industry.
If the stock market and the economy catch their breath and show that they're on firmer footing, these stocks might well fall back.a lot of investors clearly have revived their interest in gold and utility shares.
Inventories are creeping up; car inventories are already high.big auto makers are idling plants.
Beyond that, money managers and analysts see other problems..Inventories are creeping up; car inventories are already high, and big auto makers are idling plants..Takeover fever has cooled, removing a major horse from the market's cart.Britain's unsettled political scene worries some investors.
the market's going to flounder.the Fed does not come to the rescue and produce lower short-term interest rates over the next 30 days.
Such defensive issues as food, tobacco, and drug stocks have been in favor for some time.many of these stocks have now become expensive.
Gold stocks aren't cheap on this basis, either, with many selling for 20 times earnings or more..Even utility stocks aren't all that inexpensive, at an average of 14 times earnings.the two groups represent a further step in defensiveness.
it may signal that the market is in for rough times.gold stocks and utilities continue to lead.
Last Friday, 96 stocks on the Big Board hit new 12-month lows.by Mr. Granville's count, 493 issues were within one point of such lows.
Mr. Stovall doesn't expect an actual recession.he does expect "a muffler dragger" of an economy, with "very slow growth, maybe one quarter of no growth at all.
You go into them.they move counter to the general market.
that gold stocks had been down so long they were "ready for a bounce.that "you don't buy {gold stocks} based on powerful fundamentals.
The earning power {of gold mining companies} is restricted.the gold price hops up over $425 an ounce.
Robert Stovall, a veteran New York money manager and president of Stovall/ Twenty-First Securities, has money in both gold and utility issues.Abby Cohen, an investment strategist for Drexel Burnham Lambert, thinks it makes sense to have some money in both utilities and gold.
My outlook is for a decline of about 10% in corporate profits" in 1990.a bunch of utilities" should post profit increases.
that it usually rises.the dollar is weak.
that it usually rises.the dollar is weak.
Even a small reduction is unacceptable.to suggest otherwise is penny-wise and pound-foolish.
Even a small reduction is unacceptable.to suggest otherwise is penny-wise and pound-foolish.
The reason environmentalists "don't mind seeing new crises arise" is.there are new crises.
consider for a moment that the Pomton Lakes Reservoirs in northern New Jersey, which supply the tristate area with drinking water, are riddled with toxic PCBs.you are doubtful.
that mankind does not rule over this natural environment.but is the integral, symbiotic player within nature's workings.
Mr. Melloan's column was right on the money.I wish it could have gone one step further.
to understand the science.I can explain it to corporate colleagues facing major changes in product design.
The last of the measurements reported was in 1985.recent conversations with Mr. Scotto indicated that he knew of no recent changes in the trend.
To me, this calls into question the validity of the Rowland-Molina theory and hence the whole chlorofluorocarbons replacement effort.This threatens the massive vested interests of which you have written.
I was urged to get back to the agenda topic.I expressed amazement that no one was undertaking a more current and credible UV-B study.
that a private group, of which Du Pont is a part, is funding a modest program to continue data gathering at the Scotto report stations as well as to develop more sophisticated UVB measuring instruments.this is almost an underground activity.
I intend to urge that UV-B be monitored whenever I can.recognizing that professional environmentalists may feel threatened.
few experts question the connection now.like all scientific theories, it had its initial opponents.
In the September issue of Scientific American, Thomas E. Graedel, distinguished member of the technical staff at AT&T Bell Laboratories, and Paul J. Crutzen, director of the air chemistry division of the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry in Mainz, West Germany, wrote, "It is now quite evident that chlorofluorocarbons, particularly CFC-11 and CFC-12 are the major culprits responsible for ozone depletion." Mr. Melloan quotes Peter Teagan and invokes the name of Arthur D. Little Inc. to support his statement.unlike Messrs..Graedel and Crutzen, who are both pioneers in the study of atmospheric chemistry, Mr. Teagan has no special expertise in the area.
that scientists "needed new crises to generate new grants and contracts.that environmental groups need them to stay in business.
MiniScribe Corp. disclosed it had a negative net worth of $88 million as of July 2 and hinted that it might be forced to file for protection under bankruptcy laws.saying it had been the victim of widespread fraud.
Nearly two months after saying it had been the victim of widespread fraud, MiniScribe Corp. disclosed it had a negative net worth of $88 million as of July 2 and hinted that it might be forced to file for protection under bankruptcy laws.Richard Rifenburgh, chairman and chief executive of the Longmont, Colo., disk-drive maker said the company continued losing money in the third quarter and expects to sustain further losses through the end of the year.
that the company could file for bankruptcy-law protection.settlement talks fail.
Mr. Rifenburgh told industry analysts he is moving "aggressively" to negotiate out-of-court settlements on a number of shareholder lawsuits, but noted that the company could file for bankruptcy-law protection if settlement talks fail.Mr. Rifenburgh noted that 150 million shares of MiniScribe common stock were traded during the past three years, "so there's a tremendous amount of exposure.
that 150 million shares of MiniScribe common stock were traded during the past three years.there's a tremendous amount of exposure.
that its financial results for the past three fiscal years would have to be restated because of the allegedly fraudulent accounting and marketing practices that inflated revenues and net income.MiniScribe hasn't filed any financial statements for 1989.
The release of MiniScribe's new balance sheet came.it introduced its new line of one-inch disk drives.
it is the first with an 80-megabyte drive.it is not the first company to produce the thinner drives.
that at least four other disk-drive makers will have competitive one-inch drives early next year.that the industry already operates on very thin margins.
that at least four other disk-drive makers will have competitive one-inch drives early next year and that the industry already operates on very thin margins.The company faces delisting by the National Association of Securities Dealers.
MiniScribe filed a status report with the NASD on Monday, detailing its efforts to comply with listing requirements and requesting an extension of the exception, but hasn't received a response..MiniScribe common closed yesterday at $1.9375, down 6.25 cents, and has been trading for several months at less than $3 a share.U.S. Attorney Jerry Rafferty in Denver is reviewing the report prepared by MiniScribe's outside directors, to determine if criminal charges should be brought before a grand jury.
MiniScribe filed a status report with the NASD on Monday, detailing its efforts to comply with listing requirements and requesting an extension of the exception, but hasn't received a response..MiniScribe common closed yesterday at $1.9375, down 6.25 cents, and has been trading for several months at less than $3 a share.U.S. Attorney Jerry Rafferty in Denver is reviewing the report prepared by MiniScribe's outside directors, to determine if criminal charges should be brought before a grand jury.
The MiniScribe report outlines a host of allegedly fraudulent practices, including the shipment of bricks and defective disk drives that were booked as sales, and inventory forgeries in accounting records.The internal investigation criticized MiniScribe's auditors, Coopers & Lybrand, for allegedly ignoring numerous red flags.
about how Congress really works.why voters in, say, West Virginia got a federally funded university project and building while voters in Arkansas did not.
about and why voters in, say, West Virginia got a federally funded university project and building.voters in Arkansas did not.
An imaginative producer could easily have created a fast-moving and interesting piece about how Congress really works -- and why voters in, say, West Virginia got a federally funded university project and building while voters in Arkansas did not.nobody did such a piece.
Traditional standards of relevancy and importance ("is this something the public ought to know") will be replaced by a much broader test ("is this something the public is interested in knowing").since the public has always been fascinated by gossip and voyeurism, reporters and editors will strain for creative angles to justify the inclusion of collateral facts about private lives including sexual activities and domestic relationships, activities of family members, and all matters about mental and physical health.
Traditional standards of relevancy and importance ("is this something the public ought to know") will be replaced by a much broader test ("is this something the public is interested in knowing").since the public has always been fascinated by gossip and voyeurism, reporters and editors will strain for creative angles to justify the inclusion of collateral facts about private lives including sexual activities and domestic relationships, activities of family members, and all matters about mental and physical health.
And reporters and editors will strain for creative angles to justify the inclusion of collateral facts about private lives including sexual activities and domestic relationships, activities of family members, and all matters about mental and physical health.the public has always been fascinated by gossip and voyeurism.
And, since the public has always been fascinated by gossip and voyeurism, reporters and editors will strain for creative angles to justify the inclusion of collateral facts about private lives including sexual activities and domestic relationships, activities of family members, and all matters about mental and physical health.visual images will be more vivid, sensational and, sometimes, gruesome.
Over the past two years, the Fed has given a handful of banks' securities affiliates permission to underwrite and deal in a variety of corporate, asset-backed and municipal securities.that had been the sole domain of securities firms.
Over the past two years, the Fed has given a handful of banks' securities affiliates permission to underwrite and deal in a variety of corporate, asset-backed and municipal securities that had previously been the sole domain of securities firms.the Fed limited the revenue that banks could earn from these new underwriting activities to no more than 10% of the revenue earned from other securities activities long open to banks, such as dealing in U.S. Treasurys.
For some banks that 10% ceiling created problems.by allowing BT Securities Inc. to handle private placements, the Fed boosted the volume of new types of underwriting that the unit can do.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
they have pedaled 20 miles.they return to their desks at 1 p.m.
With 65% of its sales coming from mountain bikes, Specialized is widely considered to be a market leader.today, the company needs its entrepreneurial spirit more than ever.
One large competitor after another is leaping into the booming market Specialized helped create.Mr. Sinyard's company must innovate more than ever to stay ahead of them.
Thus, Mr. Sinyard's company must innovate more than ever to stay ahead of them, by developing new products specifically for mountain biking.At the same time it must become more structured to better manage its growth.
It is a problem common to small companies that have grown fast.their success attracts big-time competitors.
It is a problem common to small companies that have grown fast.their success attracts big-time competitors.
We still had a system that was probably appropriate for $10 million to $20 million in sales.the company's sales were soaring.
We still had a system that was probably appropriate for $10 million to $20 million in sales.the company's sales were soaring.
learned.working for Citicorp.
We're finally getting some understanding of what the company's long-term horizon should begin to look like.it's been very painful.
We're finally getting -- and it's been very painful -- some understanding of what the company's long-term horizon should begin to look like.it's risky.
At a recent trade show, convention-goers lined up to view a new Specialized bike frame that weighs just 2.7 pounds -- a pound less than the lightest mountain-bike frame on the market.At the trade show, Specialized unveiled a revolutionary three-spoked bike wheel developed jointly by Specialized and Du Pont Co.
It currently costs $750.Mr. Sinyard thinks the price can be reduced within three years to between $200 and $250.
Hoping to stay ahead of the pack, the company is emphasizing innovation.demands on the company's creativity are certain to grow.
Competition is intensifying.larger companies invade a mountain-bike market Mr. Sinyard's company once had virtually all to itself.
Competition is intensifying.larger companies invade a mountain-bike market Mr. Sinyard's company once had virtually all to itself.
Accessories not only sell faster than whole bikes.they offer profit margins nearly double the 25% to 30% or so on sales of complete cycles.
Trek Bicycle Corp entered the mountain-bike business in 1983.Trek made only traditional road bikes.
Trek previously made only traditional road bikes.it didn't take a rocket scientist to change a road bike into a mountain bike.
At Giant Bicycle Inc., Rancho Dominguez, Calif., sales have tripled.the company entered the U.S. mountain-bike business in 1987.
In response to the internationalization of the business, Mr. Sinyard's company is replacing independent distributors overseas with wholly owned subsidiaries..The move will cut out the cost of a middleman and give Specialized more control over marketing and sales.With some of the bigger players consolidating their strength, the game has changed.
John Franco, 47 years old, formerly vice chairman of Capital Holding Corp. and president of its Accumulation Investment Group, was named chief executive officer of this insurance holding company, effective Dec. 1.I.C.H. named Steven B. Bing, 42, senior vice president since 1986, as president.
The companies wouldn't disclose the length of the contract.to say it was a multiyear agreement.
to raise about #450 million ($711 million).the satellite-TV venture makes its delayed debut next spring.
We'll raise it through bank loans..We'll raise it through {new} equity.we'll raise it through existing shareholders" as well as through junk bonds.
Bond Corp., British Satellite's biggest investor, would like to withdraw from the satellite-TV consortium.analysts have speculated Hollywood studios might buy the Bond stake.
Bond Corp., British Satellite's biggest investor, would like to withdraw from the satellite-TV consortium.analysts have speculated Hollywood studios might buy the Bond stake.
Bond Corp., British Satellite's biggest investor, would like to withdraw from the satellite-TV consortium, and analysts have speculated Hollywood studios might buy the Bond stake.Mr. Simonds-Gooding said he isn't talking to any studios about investing.
you'll {actually} get the money.you're on the air.
that British Satellite's potential U.K. lenders "are saying, `When you're on the air, you'll {actually} get the money.The bankers insist that the loans depend on the consortium raising more money from new and existing backers.
Tokyo stocks posted a second-consecutive loss Monday.trading in Frankfurt, West Germany, was mixed.
The index settled off the high of 2117.1 posted.Wall Street opened stronger.
The index settled off the high of 2117.1 posted after Wall Street opened stronger.it showed strength throughout the session.
The 30-share index settled 23.2 points higher at 1701.7..Volume was only 256.6 million shares, breaking the previous 1989 low of 276.8 million shares recorded Oct. 23.Turnover was down substantially from 840.8 million shares on Friday.
fresh buying interest was sidelined ahead of a potential market-affecting debate in the House of Commons set for Tuesday.the market was stronger.
In London trading, Courtaulds, a chemicals and textiles company, increased 15 pence to 362.it disclosed plans to spin off its textiles operations into a separately listed company on Jan. 1.
fresh buying was drawn into Jaguar.a senior executive of Daimler-Benz, the auto maker, told a British television interviewer during the weekend that the West German company held talks with the luxury auto maker over possible joint ventures.
its name further underlined the growing interest in the British concern.Daimler has said it isn't interested in mounting a bid for Jaguar.
Other winners Monday included nonferrous metals.Petroleum companies were popular because of expectations of a weaker dollar, which cuts dollar-denominated crude-oil prices.
turnover was particularly thin.investors waited for Wall Street to set the direction for the week.
turnover was particularly thin.investors waited for Wall Street to set the direction for the week.
A few blue-chip stocks posted strong gains.the majority of shares ended little changed.
A few blue-chip stocks posted strong gains.the majority of shares ended little changed.
Courtaulds' restructuring is among the largest thus far in Britain.it is dwarfed by B.A.T Industries PLC's plans to spin off roughly #4 billion in assets to help fend off a takeover bid from Anglo-French financier Sir James Goldsmith.
Courtaulds' moves could boost the company's value by 5% to 10%.the two entities separately will carry a higher price earnings multiple than they did combined.
Some analysts have said Courtaulds' moves could boost the company's value by 5% to 10%, because the two entities separately will carry a higher price earnings multiple than they did combined.Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.
the moves are logical.they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.
Courtaulds has been under pressure to enhance shareholder value.takeover speculators -- including Australian financier Kerry Packer -- surfaced holding small stakes last year.
Courtaulds is moving to keep its institutional shareholders happy.Mr. Packer has since sold his stake.
Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market.they are separately quoted companies.
if they are separately quoted companies.which each will gain.
The Japanese concern has a 40% stake.the local partner has a 60% stake.
Officials said they weren't sure how the money will be distributed among overseas units, but added that NEC Semiconductors U.K. Ltd. will receive priority.Officials disclosed it's possible that NEC may reduce domestic production of one-megabit chips to five million a month from six million, beginning January, because of deteriorating market prices.
Japanese steel companies are apparently focusing on domestic sales.it doesn't necessarily mean that local sales contracts are increasing that markedly.
During the first hour of trading yesterday, prices fell as much as 1/4 point, or down about $2.50 for each $1,000 face amount.market activity was energized as investors started to view the lower price levels as attractive.
But market activity was energized.investors started to view the lower price levels as attractive.
But market activity was energized.investors started to view the lower price levels as attractive.
But market activity was energized as investors started to view the lower price levels as attractive.the Treasury's $17.6 billion auction of short-term bills, which generated strong buying interest, helped to lift the bond market out of the doldrums.
We saw good retail demand by small banks, individuals and institutions.that is one reason why the market advanced" late in the day.
We saw good retail demand by small banks, individuals and institutions and that is one reason why the market advanced" late in the day.the change in sentiment reflected perceptions that the slate of economic statistic due this week will be "conducive to a bond market rally.
Tomorrow, the October purchasing managers report is due.on Thursday comes October chain-store sales.
it could be delayed if Congress and President Bush fail to increase the Treasury's borrowing capacity.the Treasury will announce details of the November refunding tomorrow.
it could be delayed.Congress and President Bush fail to increase the Treasury's borrowing capacity.
Mortgage-backed securities were up less than 1/8 point.investment-grade corporate bonds were unchanged.
The average discount rate on three-month bills was 7.78%.the rate on six-month bills was 7.62%.
to raise funds quickly.the current authority to issue debt expires at midnight tonight.
The Treasury bills sold yesterday settle today, rather than the standard settlement day of Thursday.because of the early settlement, the three-month bills actually have a 93-day maturity, and the six-month bills have an 184-day maturity.
And because of the early settlement, the three-month bills actually have a 93-day maturity.the six-month bills have an 184-day maturity.
Because of the early settlement, the Federal Reserve was unable to purchase bills for its system account.analysts expect the Fed to buy Treasury bills that were auctioned yesterday in the secondary market.
that were auctioned yesterday in the secondary market.The Treasury held a hastily scheduled $2 billion sale of 51-cash management bills yesterday.
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value.higher bidding narrows the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
Thus, higher bidding narrows the investor's return.lower bidding widens it.
The percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year.the coupon equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
The 13-week bills mature Feb. 1.the 26-week bills mature May 3, 1990.
The junk bond prices of Western Union Corp. tumbled.the company said it won't proceed with an exchange offer to holders of its reset notes.
they started falling soon afterward.the notes held at a price of 92 to 93 immediately after the reset.
Yesterday, Western Union's senior secured reset notes fell 3 3/4 points, or about $37.50 for each $1,000 face amount, to close at 50 1/4.Other Western Union securities were lower.
The company's 7.90% sinking fund debentures were quoted at a bid price of 14 1/4 and an offered price of 30.the 10 3/4% subordinated debentures of 1997 were being bid for at 28 and offered at around 34 3/4.
spreads between the bid and offered prices of Western Union junk bonds have been widening for some time.in certain cases, bids for Western Union securities are not available.
of $200 million of senior subordinated reset notes maturing in 1997.and $150 million of subordinated floating rate notes maturing in 1997.
In the new-issue market for junk securities, underwriters at Salomon Brothers Inc. are expected to price today a $350 million junk bond offering by Beatrice Co.underwriters at Morgan Stanley & Co. are expected today to price a $350 million high-yield offering by Continental Cablevision Inc.
In the new-issue market for junk securities, underwriters at Salomon Brothers Inc. are expected to price today a $350 million junk bond offering by Beatrice Co.underwriters at Morgan Stanley & Co. are expected today to price a $350 million high-yield offering by Continental Cablevision Inc.
Ginnie Mae's 9% issue for November delivery finished at 98 1/2, up 4/32.its 10% issue at 102 3/8, up 4/32.
In the derivative market, insurance companies have scaled back their purchases of Remic securities, or real estate mortgage investment conduits.they assess potential claims from the recent California earthquake and hurricane in the Carolinas.
The PACs appeal to insurance companies and other investors.they have higher yields than topgrade corporate bonds and carry the guarantee of Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, quasi-federal agencies.
The improved tone in the municipal market, largely an offshoot of the New York City sale's reception, helped municipal futures rebound from early lows.the spread between the contract and Tbond futures continued to grow more negative.
having pulled off a morning low of 91-23.cash municipals rebounded.
December municipal futures ended up 11/32 point to 92-14.front month T-bond futures settled the afternoon session up a slightly greater 13/32 at 99-04.
The benchmark 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 rose 10/32 to 111 14/32 to yield 10.14%.the Treasury's 12% notes due 1995 rose 7/32 to 103 5/8 to yield 11.04%.
The 7% Treasury bond due October 1999 ended off 0.60 point to 99.35 to yield 7.09%.the 6 3/4% notes due 1994 fell 0.35 point to 97.25 to yield 7.45%.
Japanese government bonds continued to erode.the dollar remained resilient against the yen.
Such transactions numbered 670 in the second quarter, up from 527 a year earlier.the total value declined for deals of $100 million and up.
Air-traffic problems This time of year leave us in.stitches.we notice around our.airport.A holding pattern for.witches.
Air-traffic problems This time of year leave us in.stitches.we notice around our.airport.A holding pattern for.witches.
The move is sure to heighten concerns about increased Japanese investment in U.S. biotechnology firms.It is likely to bolster fears that the Japanese will use their foothold in U.S. biotechnology concerns to gain certain trade and competitive advantages.
Gen-Probe, an industry leader in the field of genetic probes last year signed an agreement for Chugai to exclusively market its diagnostic products in Japan for infectious diseases and cancer.Chugai agreed to fund certain associated research and development costs.
That arrangement apparently has worked well.Thomas A. Bologna, president and chief executive officer of Gen-Probe, founded in 1983, said the sale of the company means "we will be able to concentrate on running the business rather than always looking for sources of financing.
the sale is sure to increase concerns that Japanese companies will buy American know-how and use it to obtain the upper hand in biotechnology trade and competition.the U.S. leads in most areas of biotechnology -- largely because of research investment by the U.S. government --.
that the sale will facilitate Gen-Probe's marketing of a diagnostic test for acquired immune deficiency syndrome, or AIDS.Chugai will help Gen-Probe with its regulatory and marketing expertise in Asia.
A half-dozen Soviet space officials, in Tokyo in July for an exhibit, stopped by to see their counterparts at the National Space Development Agency of Japan.after a few pleasantries, the Soviets unexpectedly got serious.
The Soviets have a world-leading space program, the guests noted..Wouldn't the Japanese like a piece of it.The visitors listed technologies up for sale, including launch services and propulsion hardware.
That Moscow, with its dilapidated economic machine, would try to sell high technology to Japan, one of the world's high-tech leaders, sounds like a coals-to-Newcastle notion.the Soviet Union has areas where it isn't behind Japan.
Japan-U.S. trade relations are bumpy these days.some Japanese favor decreasing their reliance on U.S. technology in light of the FSX fighter-plane flap.
Japan-U.S. trade relations are bumpy these days, and some Japanese favor decreasing their reliance on U.S. technology in light of the FSX fighter-plane flap, when U.S. officials reversed an earlier decision and refused to share certain crucial fighter-plane technology.despite its image as a technology superpower, Japan has a lot of weaknesses.
It's a world leader in auto manufacturing.its aviation industry is struggling, and its space program is years behind the U.S., the Europeans and the Soviets.
but its aviation industry is struggling.its space program is years behind the U.S., the Europeans and the Soviets.
One question being debated in the Soviet Union is how to use the defense sector's research-and-production expertise in the rest of the economy.The Soviets hope to make better use of their considerable expertise in theoretical science.
Where they lag behind the Japanese is in turning the scientific inventiveness into improved production.the Japanese have proved adept at making use of Soviet inventions.
Kobe Steel Ltd. adopted Soviet casting technology in 1966 and used it for 14 years.it developed its own system.
They believe technology is one of their best bets.some Soviet officials say Moscow will even consider declassifying military know-how if the price is right.
Moscow will even consider declassifying military know-how.the price is right.
A main motive is hard cash.they also hope to benefit from Japanese manufacturing expertise.
But they also hope to benefit from Japanese manufacturing expertise.the Soviets can't expect direct technology flow from Japan.
But, while the Soviets can't expect direct technology flow from Japan.they hope to benefit from Japanese manufacturing expertise.
The Soviet Union has a lot of know-how.it has been difficult to put that into actual production because of various structural problems in the economy.
such discussions would be fraught with political complications.the Japanese find Soviet technology desirable.
So far, the Soviets have provided only the sketchiest information about their technology and business plans.what they have shown isn't impressive.
It scared brokers.most survived.
Institutions had become active market players in the early 1970s and sought exchange seats to handle their own trades.the industry was rife with brokers trying to secure big client orders by using kickbacks, gifts, women and junkets.
The change prompted the rise of discount brokers and a reduction in securities research firms.there are currently more exchange members than in 1975, with the bigger houses gaining a larger share of total commissions.
with the bigger houses gaining a larger share of total commissions.Commissions account for a smaller share of investment-house business as takeover advisory fees have soared.
Commissions, however, account for a smaller share of investment-house business.takeover advisory fees have soared.
which were forced to end 183 years of charging fixed commissions.Foreign stock markets have ended fixed commissions in recent years.
that Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter, Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher and Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole will lead the U.S. group.Michael Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers will be a member.
that Agriculture Secretary Clayton Yeutter, Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher and Labor Secretary Elizabeth Dole will lead the U.S. group..Michael Boskin, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, also will be a member.that Charles Harper, chairman of ConAgra Inc., and John McGillicuddy, chairman of Manufacturers Hanover Corp., will be among a group of at least 15 business and labor representatives in the presidential mission.
Warner and Mr. Azoff declined comment, as did MCA, where Mr. Azoff had also been discussing such a venture.record industry executives familiar with the talks said Mr. Azoff and Warner came to an agreement yesterday to form a 50-50 joint-venture company funded by Warner and run by Mr. Azoff.
Warner and Mr. Azoff declined comment, as did MCA, where Mr. Azoff had also been discussing such a venture.record industry executives familiar with the talks said Mr. Azoff and Warner came to an agreement yesterday to form a 50-50 joint-venture company funded by Warner and run by Mr. Azoff.
it is possible that he could do so later.Mr. Azoff won't produce films at first.
Although Mr. Azoff won't produce films at first.that he could do so.
Like Mr. Geffen's arrangement, the venture gives Mr. Azoff a link to the world's largest and most successful record distributor.For Warner it gives the company a second young partner with a finger on the pulse of the hottest trends in the music business.
The 41-year-old Mr. Azoff, a former rock `n' roll manager, is credited with turning around MCA's once-moribund music division in his six years at the company.Mr. Azoff had been negotiating for more than a year to get out of his MCA contract, which expired in 1991.
Mr. Azoff reportedly was bored and frequently clashed with top MCA management over a number of issues such as compensation and business plans.Mr. Azoff was eager to return to a more entrepreneurial role in which he had a big financial stake in his own efforts.
The soreness went away about a week after the shot.the rowing machine hasn't been touched since.
Yet the rowing machine hasn't been touched since.he has moved it across the country with him twice.
A San Francisco lawyer, Mr. Panelli rowed religiously.he first got the machine.
A San Francisco lawyer, Mr. Panelli rowed religiously when he first got the machine.it left grease marks on his carpet, "and it was boring.
but it left grease marks on his carpet.it was boring.
Half of those surveyed said they simply walk these days for exercise.The survey detected a bit more interest in golf, a positive sign for country clubs and golf club makers.
The survey's findings certainly aren't encouraging for marketers of health-club memberships, tennis rackets and home exercise equipment.people's good intentions, if not their actions, are keeping sales of some fitness products healthy.
but people's good intentions, if not their actions, are keeping sales of some fitness products healthy.sales of treadmills, exercise bikes, stair climbers and the like are expected to rise 8% to about $1.52 billion this year, according to the National Sporting Goods Association, which sees the home market as one of the hottest growth areas for the 1990s.
For instance, sales of treadmills, exercise bikes, stair climbers and the like are expected to rise 8% to about $1.52 billion this year, according to the National Sporting Goods Association, which sees the home market as one of the hottest growth areas for the 1990s.even that group knows some people don't use their machines as much as they should.
With more than 15 million exercise bikes sold in the past five years a lot of garages, basements and attics must be populated with them.the average price of such bikes rose last year to $145.
Electronic gimmicks are key.Premark International Inc. peddles the M8.7sp Electronic Cycling Simulator, a $2,000 stationary cycle.
She's trying to sell a $150 exercise bike she bought about five years ago for her roommate.rather than write off home fitness equipment, she traded up.
that I feel guilty.I look at it, and I'm not on it.
that if I look at it.I'm not on it.
between what people say.what they do.
The discrepancy may be.asking people about their fitness regime is a bit like inquiring about their love life.
People say they swim.that may mean they've been to the beach this year.
she says the percentage of Americans who do "real exercise to build the heart" is only 10% to 20%.she applauds the fact that more Americans are getting up from the television to stroll or garden.
That target has been revised to 30% by the year 2000.even that goal may prove optimistic.
she can do for life.by pulling a golf cart, she still gets a good workout.
I'm really wiped out.walking five hours.
you'll go stiff.you sit down all the time.
If you sit down all the time, you'll go stiff.it's relaxing.
Sometimes you can go out and walk it right off.you have a headache.
Only about a quarter of the respondents said they exercise to lose weight..Slightly more, like Leslie Sherren, a law librarian in San Francisco who attends dance aerobics five times a week, exercise to relieve stress.fully 90% of those polled felt they didn't need to belong to a health club.
They're too crowded.everybody's showing off.
The guys are being macho.the girls are walking around in little things.
They're not there to work out.at least they show up.
membership revenues will rise about 5% this year from last year's $5 billion.that the group is considering offering "a behavior-modification course, similar to a smoking-cessation program, to teach people ways to stay with it.
People who start bowling expecting it to be a pleasurable exercise "have been generally disappointed," the report said.not Richard Cottrell, a San Francisco cab driver who bowls in two weekly leagues.
I can't do anything score-wise.I like meeting the girls.
bowling helps him shed pounds.that effort is sometimes thwarted by the fact that "when I'm drinking, I bowl better.
that I bowl better.I'm drinking.
that I bowl better.I'm drinking.
The down trend was partly the result of tighter credit sparked by a discount rate increase by the Bank of Japan in May.The central bank unexpectedly raised the base rate by half a percentage point to 3.75% Oct. 11 as part of an inflation-fighting move that indirectly increases interest rates charged on new home construction loans.
Who ya gonna call.there's somethin' strange in your neighborhood.
Who ya gonna call.there's something' weird and it don't look good.
If there's something' weird.it don't look good.
the Monroe, Conn., couple are perfect demons.it comes to busting ghosts.
you can call any one of a swelling band of skeptics such as Richard Busch.psychics don't work, but your house still seems haunted.
If psychics don't work.your house still seems haunted.
Mr. Busch says there is a scientific explanation for all haunts.he can even tell you how to encourage the spirits.
eat a big pizza.and go to bed.
Like Hollywood's Ghostbusters, Kentucky's stand ready to roll.haunts get out of hand.
Like Hollywood's Ghostbusters, Kentucky's stand ready to roll when haunts get out of hand.they don't careen around in an old Cadillac, wear funny suits or blast away at slimy spirits.
Mr. Baker discovered a rat dragging a trap across the rafters.a Louisville woman complained that a ghost was haunting her attic.
hobos often hole up in abandoned houses.the weather cools.
People see activity in there.the next thing you know, you've got a haunting.
she never believed in ghosts before.lately her vacuum cleaner turned itself on, a telephone flew off its stand, doors slammed inexplicably, and she heard footsteps in her empty kitchen.
but lately her vacuum cleaner turned itself on, a telephone flew off its stand, doors slammed inexplicably.she heard footsteps in her empty kitchen.
to see who was there.it was nobody.
You tangle the base cord around a chair leg.the receiver does seem to fly off.
Interstate 64 is a block away.heavy traffic can sure set a house to vibrating.
to return.the haunting continues.
It's reassuring.it usually works.
The Rev. Alphonsus Trabold, a theology professor and exorcism expert at St. Bonaventure University in Olean, N.Y., frequently is asked to exorcise unruly spirits.he often obliges.
you ask it to be gone.the person believes there's an evil spirit.
Father Trabold often uses what he calls "a therapeutic exorcism": a few prayers and an admonition to the spirit to leave.sometimes more energetic attacks are required.
I attend.so does a television crew from New York City.
A Scottish dwarf built the small red house 110 years ago.now his demonic ghost haunts it.
Suddenly the woman begins swaying.and writhing.
She's being attacked by the demon," Mrs. Warren stagewhispers.the priest sprinkles holy water over the squirming woman, and the television camera grinds.
as the priest sprinkles holy water over the squirming woman.the television camera grinds.
A half-hour later, the woman is smiling and chatting; the demon seems to have gone.Mr. Warren says the woman has "psychic burns" on her back from the confrontation.
This was an invisible, powerful force that's almost impossible for a layman to contemplate," Mr. Warren says solemnly.the ghostbusting entourage packs up to leave.
This was an invisible, powerful force that's almost impossible for a layman to contemplate.This time I think we got it.
BROKERAGE HIRING languishes amid market turmoil.survivors earn more.
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. counts under 39,000 workers, down 100 from the start of the year and off 8,500 from after its merger and the market collapse two years ago..Another major firm has cut 6,000 workers, 13% of its staff, since Black Monday..The Bureau of Labor Statistics says securities firms in New York City alone have slashed 17,000 jobs from the December 1987 peak of 163,000.Average annual earnings of those who have hung on surged to $78,625 last year from $69,553 in 1987.
Illinois Company Investments had been trimming its ranks until last summer.then it was acquired by Household International Inc.
Illinois Company Investments had been trimming its ranks until last summer.But it was acquired by Household International Inc.
Ironically, "up until the quake, we desperately tried to fill jobs," especially for crane and bulldozer operators.the Oct. 17 temblor put a halt to much nonessential building, and heavy rains last week slowed the rest.
But the Oct. 17 temblor put a halt to much nonessential building.heavy rains last week slowed the rest.
SKILLED WORKERS aplenty are available to cope with earthquake damage.The supply of experienced civil engineers is tighter.
In recent months, California's Transportation Department has been recruiting in Pennsylvania, Arizona and Texas for engineers experienced in road and bridge design.with the state offering only $39,000 a year and California's high standard of living, "there aren't too many to choose from.
THE IRS may taketh what the Labor Department giveth.stay tuned.
that IRS regulations being drafted could put companies in violation of the tax code.they make loans to retiree shareholders and directors but don't make them available to other former workers who usually earned less.
the question won't be settled.the regulations are issued "shortly.
The IRS says the question won't be settled until the regulations are issued "shortly.violation could bring substantial tax penalties to both employer and employees.
Executives universally believe workers should know their employer-sponsored benefits.three out of four managers can't accurately state the value of their own packages.
Employees like the option.firms say it's too tough to run.
Fast-food jobs aren't popular no matter what they pay," says a Tufts official..Working students, she explains, want "some satisfaction." University of Michigan students look for jobs related to planned careers.Carnegie Mellon says some students conclude they can help their careers most by hitting the books.
Student job postings at Boston University slip 10% this year following a 10% drop in 1988.there are an ample number and pay is up to $7.20 an hour from $6.90 last year.
Still, the school says there are an ample number.pay is up to $7.20 an hour from $6.90 last year.
The favorite remains Fernando Collor de Mello, a 40-year-old former governor of the state of Alagoas.after building up a commanding lead, the moderate to conservative Mr. Collor has slipped to about 30% in the polls from a high of about 43% only a few weeks ago.
But the moderate to conservative Mr. Collor has slipped to about 30% in the polls from a high of about 43% only a few weeks ago.building up a commanding lead.
Two left-wing politicians, Socialist Leonel Brizola, a former governor of Rio de Janeiro state, and Marxist-leaning Luis Inacio da Silva, currently are running neck and neck at about 15%.three other candidates are given a chance of reaching the Dec. 17 runoff election between the two biggest vote-getters: Social Democrat Mario Covas and two conservatives, Paulo Salim Maluf, a former governor of the state of Sao Paulo, and Guilherme Afif Domingos.
this could lead it to open up and deregulate its sheltered economy.Brazil devises an economic strategy allowing it to resume growth and service debt.
just as Argentinian President Carlos Saul Menem has been doing.he was elected on a populist platform.
we could either be a trillion-dollar economy by the end of the century or stay where we are.where we are is bad.
That might have been considered hyperinflation not long ago.Argentina endured price increases of almost 200% in July before bringing the rate down sharply in August and September.
but Argentina endured price increases of almost 200% in July.bringing the rate down sharply in August and September.
but Argentina endured price increases of almost 200% in July before bringing the rate down sharply in August and September.massive internal debt has forced the government to borrow massively on the domestic market and to offer inflation-adjusted returns of 2% to 3% a month just to get investors to hold on to its paper.
to wait three minutes for a dial tone.picking up the telephone.
to wait three minutes for a dial tone after picking up the telephone.and to be interrupted by a busy signal before finishing dialing the number.
and then to be interrupted by a busy signal.finishing dialing the number.
Among the results is a frequent breakdown of public services.a national electricity shortage might not be far off.
Economists, businessmen and some politicians agree that the answer is an orthodox economic austerity program including reduced state spending; focusing spending on vital areas such as education, health and welfare; turning state companies private; reforming the tax system, raising public service rates to match costs; and possibly a temporary wage and price freeze and a devaluation of the cruzado.Analysts say it's inevitable that Brazil will seek to renegotiate its $115 billion foreign debt, on which it suspended interest payments last month.
that the answer is an orthodox economic austerity program including reduced state spending; focusing spending on vital areas such as education, health and welfare; turning state companies private; reforming the tax system, raising public service rates to match costs; and possibly a temporary wage and price freeze and a devaluation of the cruzado.that a tough economic program would have to be accompanied by measures to shield the poor from its recessionary effects.
Of the three candidates with a serious chance of winning, Mr. Collor comes closest to advocating the sort of measures that economists say are necessary.his inexperience raises doubts that he would have the political power to carry them out.
The 67-year-old Mr. Brizola has been vague about his intentions and often inflammatory in his rhetoric.analysts say he probably would be pragmatic.
Mr. da Silva, a 43-year-old former factory worker and labor leader, is the most radical, vowing to withhold payments on the foreign debt and saying he "wouldn't go around putting the country up for sale to the highest bidder.despite the differences in what they say, according to some analysts here, economic constraints mean the next president may not have many choices about what he does.
The law has prevented $216 million of unnecessary expenditures since 1986, according to William S. Conn, president of the Kentucky Hospital Association.according to David Jones, Humana's chief executive, it promotes technology monopolies, stifles innovation and raises prices.
Humana may move its insurance operations, including 3,000 jobs in Louisville, to another state.the Legislature doesn't repeal the law, due for revision in 1990.
The company complains that it paid $10 million to non-Humana hospitals in its latest fiscal year for services provided to its insurance plan members.Humana says its own facilities could serve its insured for less if they were properly equipped.
its own facilities could serve its insured for less.they were properly equipped.
demand for a similar kidney-stone smashing machine at a Humana hospital in Louisville fell 34%.a hospital in Lexington installed a lithotripter last year.
that $8,000 represents an extreme case.that its regular charge for lithotripsy is $4,900.
When a hospital in Lexington installed a lithotripter last year, demand for a similar kidney-stone smashing machine at a Humana hospital in Louisville fell 34%..The Humana hospital responded by jacking up prices to make up for lost revenue, Mr. Conn says, and now charges as much as $8,000 for the procedure, which costs only about $3,500 in Lexington.another hospital's proposal for a new-generation lithotripter is pending before the board that administers the certificate-of-need law..Humana, which wants to acquire one of the new machines itself, is on the record as opposed to the proposal.
When a hospital in Lexington installed a lithotripter last year, demand for a similar kidney-stone smashing machine at a Humana hospital in Louisville fell 34%..The Humana hospital responded by jacking up prices to make up for lost revenue, Mr. Conn says, and now charges as much as $8,000 for the procedure, which costs only about $3,500 in Lexington.another hospital's proposal for a new-generation lithotripter is pending before the board that administers the certificate-of-need law..Humana, which wants to acquire one of the new machines itself, is on the record as opposed to the proposal.
More than half of 300 residents responding to recent survey said they'd prefer a guaranteed salary over traditional fee-for-service compensation in their first professional position.81% preferred a group practice or health maintenance organization, while just 11% favored solo practice.
And 81% preferred a group practice or health maintenance organization.just 11% favored solo practice.
she shared a room just like most patients.Catherine Bobar spent several weeks at the Medical Center of Vermont recently with a bone infection in her toe.
WHEN Catherine Bobar spent several weeks at the Medical Center of Vermont recently with a bone infection in her toe, she shared a room just like most patients.unlike most patients, her roommate was her husband.
It helps us, and them.they're here.
It helps us, and them, while they're here.it certainly makes them a better health-care team when they get home.
and it certainly makes them a better health-care team.they get home.
It helps us, and them, while they're here, and it certainly makes them a better health-care team when they get home.It saves money.
room charges are lower -- about $100 less per day than a regular room at the Vermont hospital.patients require less attention from nurses and other staff.
The group led by Birmingham, Mich., publicist William D. McMaster didn't name an investment banker backing the deal or say how much its members will contribute to the offer.some individuals identified with the group said they haven't committed any money to the bid and weren't aware of it until they heard about it in local news accounts over the weekend.
and weren't aware of it.they heard about it in local news accounts over the weekend.
In his letter to Knight-Ridder President James K. Batten, Mr. McMaster said he arrived at the $68 million figure using Knight-Ridder's corporate financial statements and comments by Knight-Ridder officials that the Free Press has a $50 million value in salvage.in an interview, Mr. McMaster said he and his investment banker would need access to full financial records before firming up the offer.
he and his investment banker would need access to full financial records.firming up the offer.
Mitsui expects the antibiotic products to be exported to Southeast Asia and Africa.It hopes to enter the U.S. market.
it is proposing the change.the provisions of its senior notes restrict it from making distributions on its units outstanding.
NRM suspended its common distribution in June 1988 and the distribution on its $2 cumulative convertible acquisition preferred units in September.unpaid distributions on the acquisition preferred are cumulative and would total $23 million a year, hurting NRM's financial flexibility and its ability to raise capital.
However, unpaid distributions on the acquisition preferred are cumulative and would total $23 million a year, hurting NRM's financial flexibility and its ability to raise capital.that tax advantages for partnerships have diminished under new tax laws and said it would save $2 million a year in administrative costs from the change.
After the transaction, current common unitholders will own about 21.3% of Edisto, current acquisition preferred holders will own 72.3%.current stockholders of Edisto will own about 6.4%, about the same stake as Edisto owns now in NRM.
Cleveland-based Sherwin-Williams produces paints and coatings.the Los Angeles-based Whittaker coatings group produces industrial coatings.
and will lease the 19-story facility.it moves to a new quarters in 1992.
net sales of stock funds slowed in September, according to the Investment Company Institute, a trade group.hitting two-year highs this summer.
Confidence was starting to come back.we didn't have wildly volatile days.
Net sales of stock funds in September totaled $839.4 million, down from $1.1 billion in August.if reinvested dividends are excluded, investors put in only $340 million more than they pulled out for the month.
But investors put in only $340 million more than they pulled out for the month.reinvested dividends are excluded.
Most of the those who left stock funds simply switched into money market funds.investors actually became net buyers.
Investors in stock funds didn't panic the weekend after mid-October's 190-point market plunge..Most of the those who left stock funds simply switched into money market funds..And some fund groups said investors actually became net buyers.the stock market swings have continued.
In October, net sales of stock funds at Fidelity dropped sharply.that new accounts, new sales, inquiries and subsequent sales of stock funds are all up this month from September's level.
that follows through next month.it will be a different story.
If that follows through next month, then it will be a different story.sales "based on a few days' events don't tell you much about October's trends.
we would now be hearing about "discord" and "disarray" on foreign policy.Mr. Gates had been allowed to say these things.
just as they were.Vice President Quayle voiced similar sentiments.
If Mr. Gates had been allowed to say these things, we would now be hearing about "discord" and "disarray" on foreign policy.It's somehow OK for Secretary Baker himself to say all the same things.
It's somehow OK for Secretary Baker himself, however, to say all the same things.he did.
the Soviet leader must leap.he is going to succeed.
Perhaps Mr. Gates would emphasize more than Mr. Baker the many hurdles the Soviet leader must leap if he is going to succeed.everyone agrees that Mr. Gorbachev's problems result from the failure of his own system.
GATT membership will not matter to Donbas coal miners short of soap.will a START treaty make any difference to Ukrainian nationalists.
They all understand point one: Nothing the U.S. can do will make much difference in whether Mr. Gorbachev succeeds with perestroika.so long as Mr. Gorbachev is easing his grip on his empire, everyone we've heard agrees that the U.S. can benefit by engaging him.
why not.a deal can be made to cut the world's Ortegas loose from Moscow.
We don't expect much good from nuclear-arms control.conventional-arms talks might demilitarize Eastern Europe.
There's nothing in the least contradictory in all this.it would be nice to think that Washington could tolerate a reasonably sophisticated, complex view.
There's nothing in the least contradictory in all this, and it would be nice to think that Washington could tolerate a reasonably sophisticated, complex view.much of the political culture seems intent on castigating the Bush administration for not "helping" Mr. Gorbachev.
Yet much of the political culture seems intent on castigating the Bush administration for not "helping" Mr. Gorbachev.every time a Bush official raises a doubt about Mr. Gorbachev, the Washington community shouts "Cold War" and "timidity," and an administration spokesman is quickly trotted out to reply, "Mr..Bush wants perestroika to succeed.
So every time a Bush official raises a doubt about Mr. Gorbachev, the Washington community shouts "Cold War" and "timidity.an administration spokesman is quickly trotted out to reply, "Mr..Bush wants perestroika to succeed.
So every time a Bush official raises a doubt about Mr. Gorbachev, the Washington community shouts "Cold War" and "timidity.an administration spokesman is quickly trotted out to reply, "Mr..Bush wants perestroika to succeed.
Its symptoms include a cold sweat at the sound of debate, clammy hands in the face of congressional criticism, and fainting spells when someone writes the word "controversy." As one unidentified official clearly in the late stages of the disease told the Times: "Baker just felt that there were some lines in the speech that could be misinterpreted and seized by the press.the problem is not intra-administration disagreement, but preoccupation with the prospect that perestrokia might fail, and its political opponents will ask "Who lost Gorbachev.
In short, the problem is not intra-administration disagreement, but preoccupation with the prospect that perestrokia might fail.its political opponents will ask "Who lost Gorbachev.
Mr. Baker may want to avoid criticism from Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell.as Secretary of State his audience is the entire Free World, not just Congress.
these are not very complicated thoughts.the press is ready to seize and misinterpret.
Most murders are state crimes.any federal capital-punishment law probably would turn out to be more symbolism than substance.
The law that Sen. Thurmond is pushing would be irrelevant in the case of the Maryland restaurant murders and almost all other killings.the bill is riding high on the furor over drug trafficking.
Senate Republicans have finally gotten a full-blown death-penalty bill through committee.repeatedly failing to attach death-penalty amendments to unrelated legislation.
In 1972, the high court swept aside all capital-punishment laws -- federal and state alike -- as unconstitutional.in 1976, the court permitted resurrection of such laws, if they meet certain procedural requirements.
resurrection of such laws.they meet certain procedural requirements.
But in 1976, the court permitted resurrection of such laws, if they meet certain procedural requirements.juries would have to consider specific "aggravating" and "mitigating" factors before deciding whether to condemn someone to death.
to consider specific "aggravating" and "mitigating" factors.deciding whether to condemn someone to death.
Since that 1976 ruling, 37 states have reintroduced the death penalty.congressional Democrats have blocked the same from occurring at the federal level, with the exception of a 1988 law allowing capital punishment for certain drug-related homicides.
The Thurmond bill would establish a federally administered death sentence for 23 crimes, most of which were formerly punishable by death under federal statutes that the Supreme Court invalidated.The Thurmond bill would add five new crimes punishable by death, including murder for hire.
The Thurmond bill would establish a federally administered death sentence for 23 crimes, most of which were formerly punishable by death under federal statutes that the Supreme Court invalidated.the Senate last week passed a bill permitting execution of terrorists who kill Americans abroad.
Most of the crimes incorporated in the Thurmond bill are exceedingly rare.killing a Supreme Court justice or deliberately causing a train wreck that results in a death.
Most of the crimes incorporated in the Thurmond bill are exceedingly rare.only 28 defendants would have been eligible for federal death sentences if the Thurmond bill had been in effect in the past three years, according to a study by the Senate Judiciary Committee's Democratic staff.
In fact, only 28 defendants would have been eligible for federal death sentences according to a study by the Senate Judiciary Committee's Democratic staff.the Thurmond bill had been in effect in the past three years.
Republicans acknowledge that few people would be executed under the Thurmond bill.they contend that isn't the point.
Many scholars are of the opinion that the mere existence of the penalty deters many people from the commission of capital crimes.Executions, regardless of how frequently they occur, are proper retribution" for heinous crimes.
the new federal drug-related crimes punishable by death since last November may result in a jump in capital sentences.that hasn't happened so far.
Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.) attached an amendment that would allow a defendant to escape from a death sentence in jurisdictions shown to have meted out executions in a racist manner.the bill left committee.
A large number of studies suggest that state judges and juries have imposed the penalty in a racially discriminatory fashion.the Kennedy amendment would invade not only federal but state sentencings, in two important ways.
It would allow all defendants to introduce statistical evidence showing racially disproportionate application of the death penalty in the past.it would shift the burden to prosecutors to disprove that discrimination caused any statistical racial disparities.
executions everywhere might come to a halt.most prosecutors wouldn't be able to demonstrate conclusively that racial considerations didn't affect sentencing.
Mr. Kennedy failed to get his amendment incorporated into last year's anti-drug legislation.it will be severely attacked on the Senate floor this time around.
Mr. Kennedy failed to get his amendment incorporated into last year's anti-drug legislation, and it will be severely attacked on the Senate floor this time around.if it survives, it could prompt other statutory changes, according to the Mr. Burr.
But it could prompt other statutory changes, according to the Mr. Burr.it survives.
Narrowing the penalty in this fashion would clearly reduce whatever deterrent effect it now has.that, in turn, would only strengthen the argument of those who oppose execution under any circumstances.
Narrowing the penalty in this fashion would clearly reduce whatever deterrent effect it now has.And that would only strengthen the argument of those who oppose execution under any circumstances.
Vice Chancellor Maurice A. Hartnett III of Delaware's Court of Chancery heard arguments for more than two hours here.he made no comment and asked no questions.
Michael Rauch, an attorney for Dow Jones, defended the offer as adequate, based on what the company considers realistic projections of Telerate's revenue growth, in the range of 12%.He contended that the plaintiffs failed to cite any legal authority that would justify such an injunction.
it and its subsidiary's creditors agree that the parent company owes the unit money.they haven't been able to reach agreement on the amount.
its Lone Star Steel Co. unit sued it in federal court here, seeking to recover an intercompany receivable valued at a minimum of $23 million.The Lone Star Steel lawsuit asks the court to rule that Lone Star Technologies is jointly responsible for a $4.5 million Lone Star Steel pension payment that was due, but wasn't paid, in September and that the parent company can't recover the amount from its subsidiary if the parent company makes the payment.
that Lone Star Technologies is jointly responsible for a $4.5 million Lone Star Steel pension payment that was due, but wasn't paid, in September.that the parent company can't recover the amount from its subsidiary if the parent company makes the payment.
and that the parent company can't recover the amount from its subsidiary.the parent company makes the payment.
Lone Star Technologies Inc. said its Lone Star Steel Co. unit sued it in federal court here, seeking to recover an intercompany receivable valued at a minimum of $23 million.Lone Star Technologies said the bankruptcy court granted Lone Star Steel an extension until year end on its exclusive period to present a reorganization plan.
but is protected from creditor lawsuits.it tries to work out a plan to pay its debt.
On the afternoon of Oct. 17, after hours of haggling with five insurance-claims adjusters over settling a toxic-waste suit, four lawyers had an agreement in hand.as Judge Thomas M. Jenkins donned his robes so he could give final approval, the major earthquake struck, its epicenter not far from his courtroom in Redwood City, Calif.
But the major earthquake struck, its epicenter not far from his courtroom in Redwood City, Calif.Judge Thomas M. Jenkins donned his robes.
as Judge Thomas M. Jenkins donned his robes.he could give final approval.
Lights flickered on and off; plaster dropped from the ceiling, the walls still shook.an evacuation alarm blared outside.
Let's close the door," said the judge.he climbed to his bench.
At stake was an $80,000 settlement involving who should pay what share of cleanup costs at the site of a former gas station, where underground fuel tanks had leaked and contaminated the soil.the lawyers were just as eager as the judge to wrap it up.
We were never going to get these insurance companies to agree again.the insurance adjusters had already bolted out of the courtroom.
always you read it into the record.you've got a settlement.
that British lawyers have to wear wigs in court.that these wigs are made from horses' tails.
Applause for "Sometimes, Talk Is the Best Medicine," in your Oct. 5 Marketplace section.the "art of doctoring" does contribute to better health results and discourages unwarranted malpractice litigation.
That amounts to more than $350 billion a year.it is estimated that more than 20% of that, $70 billion, goes to "defensive medicine" -- those measures taken by doctors to protect themselves from the most unlikely possibilities.
that more than 20% of that, $70 billion, goes to "defensive medicine" -- those measures taken by doctors to protect themselves from the most unlikely possibilities.we all stand to benefit if patient-physician relations become a "partnership.
to benefit.patient-physician relations become a "partnership.
which plants will close.when Chrysler will make the moves.
In an interview with the trade journal Automotive News, Mr. Iacocca declined to say which plants will close or when Chrysler will make the moves.he said, "we have too many plants in our system..So the older or most inefficient capacity has got to go.
we have too many plants in our system.the older or most inefficient capacity has got to go.
the No. 3 auto maker, along with other U.S. manufacturers, might be forced to "realign . . . capacity.market demand doesn't improve.
At Chrysler's 1990 model preview last month, Chrysler Motors President Robert A. Lutz said the No. 3 auto maker, along with other U.S. manufacturers, might be forced to "realign . . . capacity" if market demand doesn't improve.Mr. Iacocca's remarks are the most specific indication to date of how many plants could be in jeopardy.
that as many as five of its U.S. and Canadian plants may not survive the mid-1990s.it struggles to trim its excess vehicle-production capacity.
we have the inescapable fact that the transplants are adding capacity.the market goes to 19 million units.
The Japanese-managed plants eventually will have the capacity to build some 2.5 million vehicles in the U.S.that will translate into "market share that is going to have to come out of somebody.
it acquired.it bought American Motors Corp. in 1987.
Already Chrysler has closed the Kenosha, Wis., plant it acquired when it bought American Motors Corp. in 1987.Chrysler has launched a $1 billion cost-cutting program that will cut about 2,300 white-collar workers from the payroll in the next few months.
that the proposal is simply an "expression of interest.under Chapter 11 Revco has "exclusivity rights" until Feb. 28.
because under Chapter 11 Revco has "exclusivity rights" until Feb. 28..Those rights prevent anyone other than Revco from proposing a reorganization plan.under Chapter 11, a reorganization plan is subject to approval by bondholders, banks and other creditors.
a Revco reorganization might force bondholders to accept a "cheap deal.that the Bass group's offer would give them more money.
he feared a Revco reorganization might force bondholders to accept a "cheap deal," and that the Bass group's offer would give them more money.the group is offering to pay off bondholders in cash only -- $260.5 million -- and no equity.
but issued a response yesterday.a copy of the proposal was made public by bondholders.
Its problem is that management paid too much in the leveraged buy-out.the current $515 million debt load is keeping Revco in the red.
it could still be profitable.bought at the right price.
and the current $515 million debt load is keeping Revco in the red.If bought at the right price, it could be profitable.
If bought at the right price, it could still be profitable.Revco's 1,900 stores in 27 states represent a lot of real estate and demographics are helping pharmacies: The nation's aging population will boost demand for prescription drugs.
In addition, Revco's 1,900 stores in 27 states represent a lot of real estate.demographics are helping pharmacies.
that includes the Robert M. Bass Group.The partnership includes American Express Co., Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.
Acadia would sell up to 10% of the equity in the reorganized company to creditors and bondholders in exchange for the cash distribution.creditors and bondholders would receive no discount for their shares.
both the company and the bondholders have put forth reorganization plans.little progress has been made since negotiations began this summer.
but little progress has been made.negotiations began this summer.
Any reorganization proposal is difficult to assess.it must be agreed upon by the company, bondholders, banks and other creditors.
It's not like the board can decide" by itself, Mr. Sells said, adding, "we're indifferent to (the Bass) plan..We just want a plan that satisfies creditors and at the end leaves a healthy Revco.Mr. Schulte, the bondholders' adviser, said Revco was dragging its feet in responding to the proposal.
Futures prices fell during three of five sessions last week.the losses, individually and cumulatively, were greater than the advances.
Two of the major factors buoying prices, the prolonged strikes at the Highland Valley mine in Canada and the Cananea mine in Mexico, were finally resolved.the premiums paid by the U.S. government on a purchase of copper for the U.S. Mint were lower than expected, and acted as a price depressant.
that the concern among traders is whether the prospective increased supply will find buyers because of uncertainty over national economies.production improves.
Recently, Japan has been buying copper elsewhere.as Highland Valley and Cananea begin operating, they are expected to resume their roles as Japan's suppliers.
But they are expected to resume their roles as Japan's suppliers.Highland Valley and Cananea begin operating.
Highland Valley has already started operating.Cananea is expected to do so soon.
that as production improves, the concern among traders is whether the prospective increased supply will find buyers because of uncertainty over national economies.traders disregarded a potential production disruption in Chile and a continued drop in inventories.
on whether to strike.a two-year labor pact ends today.
that it was that a strike could encourage other walkouts in Chile.there was any concern.
London Metal Exchange copper inventories fell 550 tons last week to 83,950 tons, a smaller-than-expected decline.that development also had little effect on traders' sentiment.
However, traders disregarded a potential production disruption in Chile and a continued drop in inventories.But that development had little effect on traders' sentiment.
Consumer stocks of copper in the U.S. fell to 44,000 tons at the end of September from 54,000 tons a month earlier.stocks of copper held by consumers and merchants outside of the U.S. at the end of July stood at 123,000 tons, down from 125,000 tons in June.
The prices of most corn, soybean and wheat futures contracts dropped slightly.farmers in the Midwest continued to rebuild stockpiles that were depleted by the 1988 drought.
Buying by the Soviets has helped to prop up corn prices in recent weeks.a lack of any new purchases kept prices in the doldrums.
The reports said Brazil would give up 500,000 bags of its quota and Colombia 200,000 bags.These reports were denied by a high Brazilian official.
The Colombian minister was said to have referred to a letter that he said President Bush sent to Colombian President Virgilio Barco, and in which President Bush said it was possible to overcome obstacles to a new agreement.The minister was quoted as saying that a new pact could be achieved during the first half of next year, according to the analyst.
The market turned quiet according to one analyst.rising sharply late last week.
Last week's uncertainty in the stock market and a weaker dollar triggered a flight to safety.yesterday the market lacked such stimuli.
There was some profit-taking.prices for all the precious metals had risen to levels at which there was resistance to further advance.
There was some profit-taking because prices for all the precious metals had risen to levels at which there was resistance to further advance.The dollar was slightly firmer and prompted some selling, as well, according to the analyst.
some Western observers assumed Mikhail Gorbachev had launched the Soviet Union on a course that would lead inevitably to the creation of a market economy.the Supreme Soviet passed laws on workers' rights in May 1987 and on self-managing cooperatives a year later.
some Western observers assumed Mikhail Gorbachev had launched the Soviet Union on a course that would lead inevitably to the creation of a market economy.the Supreme Soviet passed laws on workers' rights in May 1987 and on self-managing cooperatives a year later.
that Mr. Gorbachev might not survive the opposition that his reforms would arouse.that the whole process might be reversed.
he and these Western observers have good reason to fear for his future.Mr. Gorbachev's goal is the creation of a free market.
If Mr. Gorbachev's goal is the creation of a free market, he and these Western observers have good reason to fear for his future.economic liberalization within communist societies leads inexorably to demands for fundamental political reform accompanied by civil unrest.
These fears were clearly apparent.last week, Secretary of State James Baker blocked a speech by Robert Gates, deputy national security adviser and Soviet expert, on the ground that it was too pessimistic about the chances of Mr. Gorbachev's economic reforms succeeding.
These fears were clearly apparent when, last week, Secretary of State James Baker blocked a speech by Robert Gates, deputy national security adviser and Soviet expert, on the ground that it was too pessimistic about the chances of Mr. Gorbachev's economic reforms succeeding.the Soviet leader's readiness to embark on foreign visits and steady accumulation of personal power, particularly since the last Politburo reshuffle on Sept. 30, do not suggest that Mr. Gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled; nor does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika.
Yet the Soviet leader's readiness to embark on foreign visits and steady accumulation of personal power, particularly since the last Politburo reshuffle on Sept. 30, do not suggest that Mr. Gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled.does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika.
Yet the Soviet leader's readiness to embark on foreign visits and steady accumulation of personal power, particularly since the last Politburo reshuffle on Sept. 30, do not suggest that Mr. Gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled; nor does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika.the Soviet miners strike this summer clearly demonstrated that Mr. Gorbachev must proceed with economic reform.
that Mr. Gorbachev is on the verge of being toppled; nor does he look likely to reverse the powers of perestroika.is he so clever that he has achieved the political equivalent of making water run uphill.
But is he so clever that he has achieved the political equivalent of making water run uphill.has he truly persuaded the Communist Party to accept economic change of a kind that will, sooner or later, lead to its demise.
An alternative and more convincing explanation, confirmed by recent events and a close inspection of the Gorbachev program, is that the new Soviet economic and social structures are intended to conform to a model other than that of the market.while the laws on individual labor activity allow a citizen to earn a living independent of the state, strict provisions are attached on how far this may lead to the development of a free market.
For example strict provisions are attached on how far this may lead to the development of a free market.the laws on individual labor activity allow a citizen to earn a living independent of the state.
workers must seek permission from the local soviet (council).becoming self-employed, or setting up a cooperative.
The soviets have the legal right to turn down applications and impose conditions.they appear to be exercising these powers.
The soviets have the legal right to turn down applications and impose conditions, and they appear to be exercising these powers.Private dressmaking is allowed in 10 Soviet republics but banned by five; shoemaking is allowed in seven but illegal in nine.
The controls on cooperatives appeared relatively liberal.first introduced.
The controls on cooperatives appeared relatively liberal when first introduced.that changed following a resolution from the Supreme Soviet banning cooperatives from operating in some areas of the economy, and permitting activity in others only if the cooperatives are under contract to the state.
and permitting activity in others.the cooperatives are under contract to the state.
All independent media activity is now illegal, which perhaps is not surprising.so is the manufacture of perfume, cosmetics, household chemicals and sand candles.
All independent media activity is now illegal, which perhaps is not surprising.so is the manufacture of perfume, cosmetics, household chemicals and sand candles.
these latest resolutions are nothing short of reckless.Mr. Gorbachev is looking toward unleashing the productive forces of the market.
that he is bent on creating economic structures of a kind that would scarcely find favor with the Austrian or Chicago schools of economic thought.Mr. Gorbachev wishes to move away from some rigid central controls.
We do not share this approach.it would immediately destroy the social situation and disrupt all the processes in the country.
Having rejected central economic planning for economic reasons, and the market for fear of the social (political) consequences, Mr. Gorbachev seeks a "third way" that would combine the discipline and controls of the former with the economic benefits of the latter.Mr. Gorbachev's proposals display a close conceptual resemblance to the tenets of Italian fascism, whose architects spoke specifically of a "third way": of having produced a historic synthesis of socialism and capitalism.
The fascist concept of corporatism envisaged an "organic" society in which citizens were spiritually and morally unified, and prepared to sacrifice themselves for the nation.a parliamentary system based on abstract political rights and groups was held to cause, rather than resolve, conflict.
The closeness of Soviet perestroika to the fascist social blueprint of Mussolini was evident.Mr. Gorbachev presented his economic vision to the Soviet Congress.
he rejected a socialist planned economy.embraced the free market.
In doing so, he neither rejected a socialist planned economy nor embraced the free market.he proposed a "law-governed economy," in which there would be a "clear-cut division between state direction of the economy and economic management.
To ensure the loyalty of the business sector, Mr. Gorbachev may offer concessions and powers that will allow the business community to preserve its own interests, probably by restricting competition.Mr. Gorbachev must ensure that within this "alliance" the business sector remains subordinate to the party.
that a cooperative be closed.its prices be reduced.
The most important development in Mr. Gorbachev's policy for marginalizing the opposition movement is the claim that the U.S.S.R. also suffers from terrorism.Mr. Gorbachev would appear to see his central task as that of ensuring that foundations of an alliance among labor, capital and the state are properly laid before the demands for a multiparty system reach a crescendo.
that foundations of an alliance among labor, capital and the state are properly laid.the demands for a multiparty system reach a crescendo.
he or his heir would be wellplaced to rein in political opposition, and to re-establish control in Eastern Europe.he were able to construct a popular and efficient corporatist system.
The South was off 2% after the first nine months.the North Central region was up 3%.
The South was off 2% after the first nine months.the North Central region was up 3%.
A small decline in total construction for the entire year is possible.contracting for housing doesn't increase in response to this year's lower mortgage rates.
Newly contracted residential work edged up 2% in September to an annualized $121.2 billion.multifamily building rebounded from a very weak August.
weakness early in the year held the nine-month total to $69.6 billion, up just 1% from a year earlier.the third quarter was the best so far this year for non-residential building.
Public-works and utility projects, also known as non-building contracting, grew 18% to $52.2 billion in September.the nine-month total of $36.9 billion was down 3% from a year earlier.
to get any behind-schedule road and bridge construction under way.the clock ran out.
Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered ratings on long-term debt of CS First Boston Inc., the holding company of Wall Street giant First Boston Corp., because of First Boston's "aggressive merchant banking risk" in highly leveraged takeovers.Moody's confirmed the Prime-1 rating, its highest, on CS First Boston's commercial paper, or short-term corporate IOUs.
In downgrading CS First Boston's subordinated domestic, Euromarket and Swiss debt to single-A-3 from single-A-2.it downgraded Financiere Credit Suisse-First Boston's senior and subordinated Swiss debt to single-A-2 from single-A-1 and lowered Financiere CSFB N.V.'s junior subordinated perpetual Eurodebt, guaranteed by Financiere Credit Suisse -- First Boston, to single-A-3 from single-A-2.
First Boston's merchant banking risks mounted last month.highly leveraged Campeau Corp., First Boston's most lucrative client of the decade, was hit by a cash squeeze and the high-risk junk bond market tumbled.
First Boston's merchant banking risks mounted last month.highly leveraged Campeau Corp., First Boston's most lucrative client of the decade, was hit by a cash squeeze and the high-risk junk bond market tumbled.
as highly leveraged Campeau Corp., First Boston's most lucrative client of the decade, was hit by a cash squeeze.the high-risk junk bond market tumbled.
First Boston financings for several other highly leveraged clients, including Ohio Mattress, unraveled.the high-risk junk bond market plummeted.
First Boston financings for several other highly leveraged clients, including Ohio Mattress, unraveled.the high-risk junk bond market plummeted.
CS First Boston "has consistently been one of the most aggressive firms in merchant banking.that "a very significant portion" of the firm's profit in recent years has come from merchant banking-related business.
Quotron provides price quotations for securities, particularly stocks.Quotron provides trading and other systems, services for brokerage firms, and communications-network services.
Independent providers of financial information, including Quotron, have been under some pressure.the major securities houses try to regain their hold on the production of market data and on the related revenue.
Independent providers of financial information, including Quotron, have been under some pressure.the major securities houses try to regain their hold on the production of market data and on the related revenue.
The company has no immediate plans to close any operations.Quotron may subcontract some work that it has been doing in-house, including refurbishment and production of Quotron 1000 equipment used in delivering financial data.
that last week, Kidder, Peabody & Co., the securities subsidiary of General Electric Co., chose a Quotron subsidiary to provide order-processing services.Oct. 24 it will market the automated trading system of broker-dealer Chapdelaine Government Securities Inc.
Quotron isn't profitable on Citicorp's books because of the interest charges the New York bank holding company incurred in buying the financial-data concern for $680 million.Citicorp "does view Quotron) as being crucial to the financial-services business in the 1990s.
and diminished in national interest.both teams came from the San Francisco Bay area.
A network spokesman wouldn't comment.ABC Sports officials declined to be interviewed.
A network spokesman wouldn't comment, and ABC Sports officials declined to be interviewed.some industry executives said ABC, in anticipation of a four-game sweep, limited its losses by jacking up the number of commercials it aired in the third and fourth games.
A World Series telecast typically carries 56 30-second commercials.by the fourth game ABC was cramming in 60 to 62 ads to generate extra revenue.
CBS Sports President Neal Pilson has conceded only that CBS will have a loss in the first year.other industry executives contend the losses could reach $250 million over four years and could go even higher if the World Series end in four-game romps.
and could go even higher.the World Series end in four-game romps.
the next night it drew 17.4% of homes.came the earthquake and a damaging delay of 11 days.
An analyst's opinion to that effect even sent Capital Cities/ABC shares soaring two weeks ago.interest instead decreased.
ABC's ratings would go up because of the intense focus on the event in the aftermath of the earthquake.But interest decreased.
Bargain hunters helped stock prices break a weeklong losing streak.bond prices and the dollar inched higher.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 6.76 points to 2603.48 in light trading.losing more than 92 points last week.
the focus in currency markets was on the beleaguered British pound.the dollar rose slightly against most major currencies.
Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange dwindled to only 126.6 million shares yesterday.major brokerage firms continued to throw in the towel on program trading.
Trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange dwindled to only 126.6 million shares yesterday.major brokerage firms continued to throw in the towel on program trading.
Kidder Peabody became the most recent firm to swear off stock-index arbitrage trading for its own account.Merrill Lynch late yesterday took the major step of renouncing the trading strategy even for its clients.
as major brokerage firms continued to throw in the towel on program trading.that didn't eliminate program trading from the market.
The Dow industrials shot up 23 points in the opening hour, at least in part because of buy programs generated by stock-index arbitrage, a form of program trading involving futures contracts.interest waned as the day wore on and investors looked ahead to the release later this week of two important economic reports.
But interest waned.the day wore on and investors looked ahead to the release later this week of two important economic reports.
But interest waned as the day wore on.investors looked ahead to the release later this week of two important economic reports.
Stock prices rose in light trading.declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered gainers 774 to 684, and broader market indexes were virtually unchanged.
But declining issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered gainers 774 to 684.broader market indexes were virtually unchanged.
pressured by last week's resignations of key Thatcher administration officials.The British pound rose Monday to $1.5820 from Friday's $1.5795.
why does Kawasaki-Rikuso Transportation Co. sometimes need a week just to tell its clients how soon it can ship goods from here to Osaka.Japanese companies are so efficient.
Japanese corporations' reputation as hi-tech powerhouses is only half right.the companies have lacked office computers considered standard equipment in the U.S. and Western Europe.
Their factories may look like sets for a Spielberg movie.their offices, with rows of clerks hunched over ledgers and abacuses, are more like scenes from a Dickens novel.
Kawasaki-Rikuso, a freight company, set up its own software subsidiary this year and is spending nearly a year's profit to more than double the computer terminals at its main office..In April, the Long-Term Credit Bank linked its computers in Tokyo with its three American offices.PC sales in Japan in the first half of 1989 were 34% higher than in the year-earlier period.
Combined PC and work-station use in Japan will jump as much as 25% annually over the next five years, according to some analysts, compared with about 10% in the U.S.with a labor shortage and intense competitive pressure to improve efficiency, more and more Japanese companies are concluding that they have no choice.
the prospect of an even more efficient Japanese economic army may rattle foreigners.it also offers opportunities.
the prospect of an even more efficient Japanese economic army may rattle foreigners.But it offers opportunities.
Japan may be a tough market for outsiders to penetrate.the U.S. is hopelessly behind Japan in certain technologies.
and the U.S. is hopelessly behind Japan in certain technologies.for now, at least, Americans are far better at making PCs and the software that runs them.
After years of talking about selling in Japan, more and more U.S. companies are seriously pouring in.the Japanese have to go a long way to catch up.
Personal Computer" yearbooks are lined up on nearly every desk.dog-eared copies of Nikkei Computer crowd magazine racks.
Personal Computer" yearbooks are lined up on nearly every desk, and dog-eared copies of Nikkei Computer crowd magazine racks.amid the two dozen bureaucrats and secretaries sits only one real-life PC.
Japanese sales were flat for most of that time.American PC sales have averaged roughly 25% annual growth since 1984 and West European sales a whopping 40%.
Japanese office workers use PCs at half the rate of their European counterparts and one-third that of the Americans.Japanese offices tend to use computers less efficiently than American offices do.
In Japan, many desktop terminals are limited to one function and can't communicate with other machines.The market planning and sales promotion office of Nomura Securities Co. has more than 30 computers for its 60 workers, a respectable ratio.
The market planning and sales promotion office of Nomura Securities Co., for example, has more than 30 computers for its 60 workers, a respectable ratio.the machines aren't on employees' desks; they ring the perimeter of the large office.
To transfer information from one to the other, employees make printouts and enter the data manually..To transmit charts to branch offices, they use a fax machine.a woman sitting next to a new Fujitsu terminal writes stock-market information on a chart with a pencil and adds it up with a hand calculator.
To transfer information from one to the other, employees make printouts and enter the data manually..To transmit charts to branch offices, they use a fax machine.a woman sitting next to a new Fujitsu terminal writes stock-market information on a chart with a pencil and adds it up with a hand calculator.
Some Japanese operations, such as securities-trading rooms, may be ahead of their American counterparts.basically, there's little analysis done on computers in Japan.
Of course, simply buying computers doesn't always solve problems.many American companies have erred by purchasing technology they didn't understand.
Of course, simply buying computers doesn't always solve problems, and many American companies have erred by purchasing technology they didn't understand.healthy skepticism is only a small reason for Japan's PC lag.
Japan has no history of typewriter use.the Japanese "alphabet" is so huge.
Because the Japanese "alphabet" is so huge, Japan has no history of typewriter use.so "keyboard allergy," especially among older workers, remains a common affliction.
Japan has no history of typewriter use.and keyboard allergy," especially among older workers, remains a common affliction.
Japanese "salarymen" usually share large, common tables and rely heavily on old-fashioned personal contact.most American employees have their own private space.
Top Japanese executives often make decisions based on consensus and personal relationships rather than complex financial projections and fancy presentations.Japan's management system makes it hard to impose a single, integrated computer system corporatewide.
Because the Japanese "alphabet" is so huge, Japan has no history of typewriter use, and so "keyboard allergy," especially among older workers, remains a common affliction While most American employees have their own private space, Japanese "salarymen" usually share large, common tables and rely heavily on old-fashioned personal contact..Top Japanese executives often make decisions based on consensus and personal relationships rather than complex financial projections and fancy presentations..And Japan's management system makes it hard to impose a single, integrated computer system corporatewide.a computer processing the Japanese language needs a huge memory and much processing capability, while the screen and printer need far better definition to depict accurately the intricate symbols..Until recently, much of the necessary technology has been unavailable or at least unaffordable.
Besides, a computer processing the Japanese language needs a huge memory and much processing capability.the screen and printer need far better definition to depict accurately the intricate symbols.
Some analysts estimate the average PC costs about 50% more in Japan than the U.S.the complex language isn't the only reason.
The U.S. market, too, is dominated by a giant, International Business Machines Corp.early on, IBM offered its basic design to anybody wanting to copy it.
and increases software firms' incentive to write packages.they can be sold to users of virtually any computer.
Sony CD owners could listen to a Sony version of Madonna's "Like a Prayer" but not one made for a Panasonic player.a record industry lacked a common standard.
NEC won't release its code.every one of the dozen or so makers has its own proprietary operating system -- all incompatible with each other.
IBM established its standard to try to stop falling behind upstart Apple Computer.NEC was ahead from the start and didn't need to invite in competitive allies.
NEC won't release its code, and every one of the dozen or so makers has its own proprietary operating system -- all incompatible with each other.the big players haven't tried to copy the NEC standard.
NEC won't release its code, and every one of the dozen or so makers has its own proprietary operating system -- all incompatible with each other.the big players haven't tried to copy the NEC standard.
NEC disapproves of such machines.marketing one would jeopardize their relationship.
only about 8,000 are written for NEC.tens of thousands of software packages using the IBM standard are available in the U.S.
In Japan, "software is four to five years behind the U.S.hardware is four to five years behind.
because hardware is four to five years behind.NEC is enjoying a monopoly.
that prices are higher in Japan.customers put a greater emphasis on quality and service than they do in the U.S.
that some technological advances trail those in the U.S.the Japanese still import basic operating systems from American companies.
While American PC sales have averaged roughly 25% annual growth since 1984 and West European sales a whopping 40%, Japanese sales were flat for most of that time.the market is changing.
not only to make certain tasks easier.but to transform the way the company is run.
who supervise their subordinates.orders would be properly acted on.
Managers have long been those who supervise their subordinates so orders would be properly acted on.new managers will have to be creators and innovators.
But new managers will have to be creators and innovators.for that purpose it is necessary to create an environment where information from both inside and outside the company can be reached easily, and also shared.
where information from both inside and outside the company can be reached easily.and shared.
The government is funding several projects to push PC use In the private sector, practically every major company is setting explicit goals to increase employees' exposure to computers.more computer makers now are competing for the new business.
That hasn't generated much sales.this summer Microsoft rallied all the major NEC competitors to make their new machines compatible with the IBM OS/2 standard.
A healthy, coherent Japanese market could also make it far easier for Japanese companies to sell overseas, where their share is still minimal.it could also help American companies, which also are starting to try to open the market.
A healthy, coherent Japanese market could also make it far easier for Japanese companies to sell overseas, where their share is still minimal.But it could help American companies.
for Japanese companies to sell overseas, where their share is still minimal.which are starting to try to open the market.
the Japanese computer industry is difficult for outsiders to enter.no formal trade barriers exist.
we would have been in in 1983 or 1984.it were an open market.
it is still only "studying" Japan, the only nation that hasn't adopted IBM-oriented specifications.it has opened a New Zealand subsidiary.
Though no formal trade barriers exist, the Japanese computer industry is difficult for outsiders to enter.because general retail centers such as ComputerLand have little presence in Japan, sales remain in the iron grip of established computer makers.
And sales remain in the iron grip of established computer makers.general retail centers such as ComputerLand have little presence in Japan.
And because general retail centers such as ComputerLand have little presence in Japan, sales remain in the iron grip of established computer makers.the Americans are also to blame.
the Japanese computer industry is difficult for outsiders to enter.But the Americans are to blame.
though long a leader in the Japanese mainframe business, didn't introduce its first PC in Japan until five years after NEC did.that wasn't compatible even with the U.S. IBM standard.
They long made little effort here.American companies charge too much.
They long made little effort here.the U.S. companies are redoubling their efforts.
that could run in both Japanese and English.that substantially enhances compatibility with its American products.
It may take five years to break even in Japan.it's an enormous business opportunity.
This is.it kills the unborn, a job at which it actually is not outstandingly efficient, zapping only 50% to 85% of them depending on which study you read (prostaglandin, taken in conjunction with the pill, boosts the rate to 95%).
zapping only 50% to 85% of them depending on which study you read.surgical abortion is 99% effective.
the abortion part alone lasts three days.the clinical part comprises a week's worth of visits.
one woman in a Swedish trial required a transfusion.for most it resembles a menstrual period, with bleeding lasting an average of 10 days.
taken.a woman misses her menstrual period up through the seventh week of pregnancy.
So far, all the studies have concluded that RU-486 is "safe.safe," in the definition of Marie Bass of the Reproductive Health Technologies Project, means "there's been no evidence so far of mortality.
The drug seems to suppress ovulation for three to seven months.it is taken.
Some women clearly have no trouble eventually conceiving again: The studies have reported repeaters in their programs.there are no scientific data on this question.
Rather ominously, rabbit studies reveal that RU-486 can cause birth defects.that the rabbit-test results could not be duplicated in rats and monkeys.
which occurs.the drug fails to induce an abortion.
It typically takes from eight to 10 years to obtain the Food and Drug Administration's approval for a new drug.the cost of testing and marketing a new drug can range from $30 million to $70 million.
The Health and Human Services Department currently forbids the National Institutes of Health from funding abortion research as part of its $8 million contraceptive program.the Population Council, a 37-year-old, $20 million nonprofit organization that has the backing of the Rockefeller and Mellon foundations and currently subsidizes most U.S. research on contraceptives, has recently been paying for U.S. studies of RU-486 on a license from its French developer, Roussel-Uclaf, a joint subsidiary of the German pharmaceutical company Hoechst and the French government.
For a woman whose period is late, using RU-486 means no waiting, no walking past picket lines at abortion clinics, and no feet up in stirrups for surgery.It means she will never have to know whether she had actually been pregnant.
RU-486 is being administered in France only under strict supervision in the presence of a doctor.a woman who used RU-486 to have an abortion would have to make three trips to the clinic past those picket lines; an initial visit for medical screening and to take the pill, a second trip 48 hours later for the prostaglandin, administered either via injection or vaginal suppository, and a third trip a week later to make sure she has completely aborted.
Thus, a woman who used RU-486 to have an abortion would have to make three trips to the clinic past those picket lines; an initial visit for medical screening (anemics and those with previous pregnancy problems are eliminated) and to take the pill, a second trip 48 hours later for the prostaglandin, administered either via injection or vaginal suppository, and a third trip a week later to make sure she has completely aborted.because timing is so critical with RU-486, she will learn, via a pelvic examination and ultrasound, not only that she is pregnant, but just how pregnant she is.
Furthermore she will learn, via a pelvic examination and ultrasound, not only that she is pregnant, but just how pregnant she is.timing is so critical with RU-486.
it would put the federal government into the contraceptive marketing business for the first time.this passes.
it would put the federal government into the contraceptive marketing business for the first time.It could put the government into the RU-486 business.
We will not know.a first generation of female guinea pigs has put the abortion pill through the clinical test of time.
That means that the U.S. trade deficit was running closer to $75 billion than to $95 billion in 1988, and $55 billion (annualized) rather than $80 billion in the first quarter of 1989.These revised figures may explain some of the recent strength of the dollar.
Too early to tell.a trade deficit that is significantly smaller than we imagined does suggest a review of our trade posture.
It does not relieve the need for our market-opening efforts for both goods and services.it does suggest that it is our exports of services, and not just borrowing, that is financing our imports of goods.
The tab even covers $8 million in commitment fees owed to Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp.their failure to obtain $7.2 billion in bank loans for the buy-out was the main reason for its collapse.
to reimburse certain of the buy-out group's expenses out of company funds.the transaction wasn't completed.
the buy-out group is entitled to be repaid $26.7 million in fees for its investment bankers, Lazard Freres & Co. and Salomon Brothers Inc., and its law firm, Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison.The buy-out group is entitled to $16 million to repay a fund created by the pilots union for an employee stock ownership plan.
from collecting up to $53.7 million in fees.UAL stock rose $4 a share to $175 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange on reports that Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis has asked United Airlines unions if they're interested in cooperating with Mr. Davis in a new bid for UAL.
that Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis has asked United Airlines unions if they're interested in cooperating with Mr. Davis in a new bid for UAL.neither the pilots nor the machinists appear interested.
But neither the pilots nor the machinists appear interested.Mr. Davis is barred from making a new bid under terms of an agreement he made with UAL in September unless UAL accepts an offer below $300 a share.
and Mr. Davis is barred from making a new bid under terms of an agreement he made with UAL in September.UAL accepts an offer below $300 a share.
Kidder, Peabody & Co., a unit of General Electric Co., announced it would stop doing stock-index arbitrage for its own account.Merrill Lynch & Co. pulled out of the practice altogether.
Mr. Phelan's meeting with the floor brokers comes according to exchange officials.he prepares to explain the exchange's position on program trading to key congressional regulators in a closed session tomorrow.
The program-trading outcry was taken to a new level.giant Contel Corp. said it and 20 or more of the Big Board's listed companies are forming an unprecedented alliance to complain about the exchange's role in program trading.
Merrill's move is one of the most sweeping program-trading pullbacks of recent days.the big securities firm will no longer execute stock-index arbitrage trades for customers.
and Merrill Lynch & Co. pulled out of the practice altogether.it is lobbying for significant regulatory controls on program trading, including tough margin -- or down-payment -- requirements and limits on price moves for program-driven financial futures.
index arbitrage "has been clearly identified in the investing public's mind as a contributing factor to excess market volatility.Merrill won't execute such trades until "effective controls" are in place.
so Merrill won't execute such trades.effective controls" are in place.
so Merrill won't execute such trades until "effective controls" are in place.it would cease index arbitrage altogether.
Last Thursday, PaineWebber Group Inc. also said it would cease index arbitrage altogether.the firm wasn't as big an index arbitrager as Merrill is.
Index arbitrage doesn't have a "negative impact on the market as a whole.Kidder's customers were "sophisticated" enough to know that.
Just a week ago, Mr. Carpenter staunchly defended index arbitrage at Kidder, the most active index-arbitrage trading firm on the stock exchange this year..Index arbitrage, Mr. Carpenter said last week, doesn't have a "negative impact on the market as a whole" and Kidder's customers were "sophisticated" enough to know that.yesterday, Mr. Carpenter said big institutional investors told us they wouldn't do business with firms" that continued to do index arbitrage for their own accounts.
Kidder denied that GE's chairman and chief executive, John F. Welch, had anything to do with Kidder's decision.at least one chief executive said he called Mr. Welch to complain about Kidder's aggressive use of program trading, and other market sources said they understood that Mr. Welch received many phone calls complaining about Kidder's reliance on index arbitrage as a major business.
But at least one chief executive said he called Mr. Welch to complain about Kidder's aggressive use of program trading.other market sources said they understood that Mr. Welch received many phone calls complaining about Kidder's reliance on index arbitrage as a major business.
Supporters of index arbitrage haven't been publicly sticking up for the trading strategy, as some did during the post-crash outcry of 1987.Merrill Lynch, in its statement about pulling out of index arbitrage, suggested that the current debate has missed the mark.
that "the causes of excess market volatility are far more complex than any particular computer trading strategy.there are legitimate hedging strategies used by managers of large portfolios such as pension funds that involve program trading as a means of protecting the assets of their pension beneficiaries.
Merrill's index arbitragers will continue to do other kinds of computer-assisted program trading.there probably won't be any layoffs at the firm.
But Merrill Lynch, in its statement about pulling out of index arbitrage, suggested that the current debate has missed the mark..Merrill said it continues to believe that "the causes of excess market volatility are far more complex than any particular computer trading strategy.Bear Stearns Chairman and Chief Executive Alan C. Greenberg said his firm will continue stock-index arbitrage for its clients.
But Merrill Lynch, in its statement about pulling out of index arbitrage, suggested that the current debate has missed the mark..Merrill said it continues to believe that "the causes of excess market volatility are far more complex than any particular computer trading strategy.Bear Stearns Chairman and Chief Executive Alan C. Greenberg said his firm will continue stock-index arbitrage for its clients.
they are crazy.they think they are going to stop index arbitrage by causing a few Wall Street firms to quit.
Pressure from big institutional investors has been the major catalyst for Wall Street's program-trading pullback.there was speculation yesterday that Fidelity Investments and other large mutual-fund companies might soon follow the lead of Kemper Corp. and other institutions in cutting off trading business to securities firms that do program trading.
A Fidelity spokesman in Boston denied the speculation, saying the program-trading issue was more of a regulatory problem.a much smaller mutual fund company, the USAA Investment Management Co. unit of USAA, San Antonio, Texas, said it informed nine national brokerage firms it will cease business with them unless they stop index-arbitrage trading.
it will cease business with them.they stop index-arbitrage trading.
he had no time to work yesterday.he received so many phone calls, faxes and letters supporting his view that the Big Board has been turned into a "gambling casino" by program traders.
Robert Guy, an associate curator at the Princeton Art Museum, was previewing a June antiquities sale at the auction house.he recognized the kylix.
To confirm Mr. Guy's identification, Sotheby's and IFAR exchanged photos by fax.the waiting man, apparently innocent of knowledge that the kylix was stolen, agreed to release it.
The cup had been insured.in short order it was given over to a Chubb & Son representative.
The theft was discovered early this year.Ms. Hammond took her post.
when Mr. Krisher was hospitalized for depression.on Oct. 6, he had reason to celebrate.
to sell 44 of the most important stolen strips to Mr. Russell for $62,800.New York City police seized the stolen goods, and Mr. Krisher avoided jail.
Instead, New York City police seized the stolen goods.Mr. Krisher avoided jail.
The air-waybill number was changed en route.paper work showing that the crates had cleared customs was misplaced.
The air-waybill number was changed en route, and paper work showing that the crates had cleared customs was misplaced.it was a week before three of the four crates could be located in a bonded warehouse and the Gauguin discovered missing.
the Gauguin may be "lost.Heathrow authorities have been watching a group of allegedly crooked baggage handlers for some time.
The government offered a reward for the return of the antiquities.routine police work led to the recovery.
Carlos Perches Trevino and Ramon Sardina Garcia had hidden the haul in a closet in the Perches family's home for a year.they took the art to Acapulco and began to trade some of it for cocaine.
The artist's melancholy subjects bring high prices on the world market.the U.S. State Department notified IFAR of the theft in February 1988.
Trompe l'oeil painting is meant to fool the eye.Robert Lawrence Trotter, 35, of Kennett Square, Pa., took his fooling seriously.
it is recalling about 3,600 of its 1990-model Escorts.the windshield adhesive was improperly applied to some cars.
Ford Motor Co. said it is recalling about 3,600 of its 1990-model Escorts because the windshield adhesive was improperly applied to some cars.Ford and Mazda Motor Corp. 's U.S. sales arm said they are recalling about 88,500 1988-model Mercury Tracers and 220,000 1986, 1987 and 1988 model Mazda 323s equipped with 1.6-liter fuel-injected engines to replace the oil filler cap.
to retain the windshield in place in a crash test at 30 miles per hour.properly applied.
owners should return the cars to dealers.the windshields can be removed and securely reinstalled.
Both companies will replace the oil filler cap with a ventilated oil filler cap.Both will inspect and replace, if necessary, oil filters and oil strainers, at no charge to owners.
Ford said the term on its warranty is already six years or 60,000 miles.Ford said it will offer $750 cash rebates to buyers of its 1990-model Ford Bronco sport utility vehicle.
it will offer $750 cash rebates to buyers of its 1990-model Ford Bronco sport utility vehicle.it will offer buyers the option of financing as low as 6.9% on 24-month loans.
it will also offer buyers the option of financing as low as 6.9% on 24-month loans.Ford offered the low financing rate option on 1989-model Broncos, which previously carried a $750 cash discount.
Ford also offered the low financing rate option on 1989-model Broncos.which carried a $750 cash discount.
the federal appeals court ruling, which favored LTV, threatened to transform the agency from an insurer of troubled pension plans into an "open-ended source of industry bailouts.The ruling may determine how quickly LTV is able to complete its Chapter 11 reorganization.
In January 1987 the agency terminated the three LTV pension plans.LTV Steel continued operating while under reorganization.
that the agency's insurance assumes the liabilities and pays the pension benefits already owed under the plans.workers don't accrue new benefits.
LTV would be responsible only for benefits paid under the new pension plans.the federal pension agency had taken over the old plans.
Because the federal pension agency had taken over the old plans, LTV would be responsible only for benefits paid under the new pension plans.the agency viewed the creation of the new plans as an abuse of federal pension law and an attempt to transfer the liability of the $2.3 billion shortfall from LTV to federal insurance.
But the agency viewed the creation of the new plans as an abuse of federal pension law and an attempt to transfer the liability of the $2.3 billion shortfall from LTV to federal insurance.The agency concluded that LTV's financial status had improved while it was under reorganization.
that LTV's financial status had improved.it was under reorganization.
LTV challenged the order.a federal district court in New York in June 1988 ruled that the agency improperly ordered LTV to reassume responsibility for the plans.
The appeals court said there was no evidence that Congress intended to allow the pension agency to consider a company's creation of new benefit plans as a basis for ordering that company to reassume liability for old plans.The appeals court said the agency had to consider a company's long-term ability to fund pension plans, not just short-term improved financial status.
that it was disappointed that the court agreed to hear the case.it believes the move will further delay its Chapter 11 proceedings.
that it was disappointed that the court agreed to hear the case because it believes the move will further delay its Chapter 11 proceedings.it is confident that the Supreme Court will uphold the lower-court decisions.
to continue discussions with the agency about a settlement.the case is being reviewed.
The Nissan logo flashed on the screen for a moment.then came a taped plea for donations from former President Reagan.
The Nissan logo flashed on the screen for a moment.and came a taped plea for donations from former President Reagan.
By advertising disaster relief, these companies are hoping to don a white hat and come out a hero.the strategy can backfire.
the companies may end up looking like rank opportunists instead of good Samaritans.the ads appear too self-serving.
At Nissan, "we felt we wanted to do something to help them gather money.we had this airtime on Monday Night Football.
advertisers in the past couple of years have learned to turn on a dime, to crash out ads in days or even hours.TV commercials typically take weeks to produce.
The ads are just the latest evidence of how television advertising is getting faster on the draw.as advertisers latch onto disasters with increasing frequency, they risk hurting themselves as much as helping the cause.
But they risk hurting themselves as much as helping the cause.advertisers latch onto disasters with increasing frequency.
People see extra messages in advertising.if a manufacturer is clearly trying to get something out of it . . . if it's too transparent . . . then consumers will see through that.
a manufacturer is clearly trying to get something out of it.and consumers will see through that.
it's too transparent.and consumers will see through that.
It can backfire.companies can step across the line and go too far, be too pushy.
because companies can step across the line and go too far, be too pushy.that only a few of the quake-related campaigns have been "tasteless" and that "the majority have been truly beneficial to the people who need the help.
that only a few of the quake-related campaigns have been "tasteless.that "the majority have been truly beneficial to the people who need the help.
however, he won't be paying for it.the campaign was Mr. Gibbons's idea.
Burger King's chief executive officer, Barry Gibbons, stars in ads saying that the fast-food chain will donate 25 cents to the Red Cross for every purchase of a BK Doubles hamburger.While the campaign was Mr. Gibbons's idea he won't be paying for it.
The donations will come out of the chain's national advertising fund, which is financed by the franchisees.by basing donations on BK Doubles, a new double-hamburger line the fast-food chain is trying to push, Burger King works a sales pitch into its public-service message.
Burger King's chief executive officer, Barry Gibbons, stars in ads saying that the fast-food chain will donate 25 cents to the Red Cross for every purchase of a BK Doubles hamburger.Toyota's upscale Lexus division, a sponsor of the World Series, put in a plug for Red Cross donations in a World Series game it sponsored.
Toyota's upscale Lexus division, a sponsor of the World Series, also put in a plug for Red Cross donations in a World Series game it sponsored.New York Life made a plea for Red Cross donations in newspaper ads in the San Francisco area.
they're piggybacking on our reputation.she has no problem with that.
they're piggybacking on our reputation.they're helping us.
The Red Cross doesn't track contributions raised by the disaster ads.it has amassed $46.6 million since it first launched its hurricane relief effort Sept. 23.
but it has amassed $46.6 million.it first launched its hurricane relief effort Sept. 23.
Northrup King Co., Golden Valley, Minn., awarded its $4 million field-crop-seeds account to Creswell, Munsell, Fultz & Zirbel, a Cedar Rapids, Iowa, division of Young & Rubicam.The account had been handled by Saatchi & Saatchi Wegener, New York.
he may be able to look back on this election as the high-water mark of far-left opposition.he follows the correct path.
The far left had some good issues.it did not have good programs for dealing with them.
Unemployment still is officially recorded at 16.5%, the highest rate in Europe.actual joblessness may be lower.
Housing is scarce.public services -- the court system, schools, mail service, telephone network and the highways -- are in disgraceful condition.
It could point to plenty of ailments that the Spanish economic rejuvenation so far has failed to cure.The left is critical of the style of the Socialist government -- a remarkable parallel to the situation in Britain.
In that time more than 1.2 million jobs have been created.the official jobless rate has been pushed below 17% from 21%.
Mr. Gonzalez and his colleagues, particularly the finance minister, Carlos Solchaga, are charged with having abandoned their socialist principles and with having become arrogant elitists who refuse even to go on television (controlled by the state) to face their accusers.Mr. Gonzalez has split with the left in reaffirming Spain's NATO commitment and in renewing a defense treaty with the U.S.
Mr. Gonzalez and his colleagues, particularly the finance minister, Carlos Solchaga, are charged with having abandoned their socialist principles and with having become arrogant elitists who refuse even to go on television (controlled by the state) to face their accusers.Mr. Gonzalez is not quite a closet supply-side revolutionary.
He did not go as far as he could have in tax reductions.he combined them with increases in indirect taxes.
Mr. Gonzalez is not quite a closet supply-side revolutionary, however..He did not go as far as he could have in tax reductions; indeed he combined them with increases in indirect taxes.the best the far-left could do was not enough to deter the biggest voting bloc -- nearly 40% -- from endorsing the direction Spain is taking.
to cut public subsidies and transfers.making funds available for public services starved of money for six years.
along comes Mr. Ortega in Costa Rica this weekend to "blunder" into the hands of what are often called conservatives.American liberalism had pulled the arms plug on the Contras and their friend Ronald Reagan.
Mr. Ortega should give them a break.the conservatives ask them to vote for bullets instead of bandages.
that making George Bush look silly in a photograph with him will trigger Noriegan fulminations.that announcing an end to the liberals' cease-fire will produce mainly their concern over the Contras' military activities in northern Nicaragua.
the government of Spain approved the marketing of its Proleukin interleukin-2 drug to treat kidney cancer.Spanish authorities must clear the price for the treatment.
Spanish authorities must still clear the price for the treatment.that it expects to receive such approval by year end.
they were considering the new reporting requirements.the expected publication of the proposal in the Federal Register today is the first official step toward creating final regulations.
Another suggestion would draw banks more directly into tracking down money launderers by developing a "suspicious international wire transfer profile," which banks would use to spotlight questionable payments.banks may prefer using a profile that targets selected transactions, rather than a blanket reporting requirement.
Banks now are required only to report cash deposits or withdrawals of $10,000 or more.wire transfers from a standing account -- including those bigger than $10,000 -- aren't reported.
A Western Union spokesman, citing adverse developments in the market for high-yield "junk" bonds, declined to say what alternatives are under consideration.some holders of the Western Union notes expect the company to propose a more-attractive debt swap that will give them a substantial equity stake in the company.
Western Union has had major losses in recent years.its telex business has faltered in the face of competition from facsimile machines.
Western Union has had major losses in recent years.its telex business has faltered in the face of competition from facsimile machines.
as its telex business has faltered in the face of competition from facsimile machines.as other business ventures have gone awry.
Western Union has had major losses in recent years.and other business ventures have gone awry.
Western Union has had major losses in recent years.and other business ventures have gone awry.
The notes became burdensome.reset provisions allowed their interest rate to be raised to 19.25% last June.
The notes became burdensome.reset provisions allowed their interest rate to be raised to 19.25% last June.
Western Union must make $48 million in interest payments on the reset notes on Dec. 15.it fully intends to meet the payments.
Western Union must make $48 million in interest payments on the reset notes on Dec. 15, and a company spokesman said it fully intends to meet the payments.Western Union has said it must lower the interest rate on its debt to regain full financial health.
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61.the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56.
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61.the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56.
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61, while the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56.the "other finance" index dropped 3.27 to 529.32.
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61, while the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56, and the "other finance" index dropped 3.27 to 529.32..The largest financial issues, as measured by the Nasdaq financial index, tumbled 3.23 to.the index of the 100 biggest non-financial stocks, the Nasdaq 100, gained 0.47 to 438.15.
The Nasdaq bank index fell 5.00 to 432.61, while the insurance index fell 3.56 to 528.56, and the "other finance" index dropped 3.27 to 529.32..The largest financial issues, as measured by the Nasdaq financial index, tumbled 3.23 to.the index of the 100 biggest non-financial stocks, the Nasdaq 100, gained 0.47 to 438.15.
who sell loss-making stocks.they can deduct their losses from this year's income.
many portfolio managers are selling now rather than risk seeing their gains erode further.Tax-loss sellers, those investors who sell loss-making stocks so they can deduct their losses from this year's income, are getting out.
The stocks that have been the best are having big pullbacks.the ones that have been the worst are getting clobbered.
We are advising a lot of our clients to make moves that make sense to them, rather than waiting until the last minute.things have been so volatile.
Weisfield's surged 14 to 53.agreeing in principle to be acquired by a unit of Ratners Group for $50 a share.
Mid-State Federal Savings Bank advanced 1 1/2 to 20 1/4.it said it is in talks with a possible acquirer.
Jaguar assumed its recently customary place on the OTC most active list.its American depository receipts gained 1/4 to 11 7/8 on volume of 1.2 million shares and Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker.
Jaguar assumed its recently customary place on the OTC most active list.its American depository receipts gained 1/4 to 11 7/8 on volume of 1.2 million shares and Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker.
as its American depository receipts gained 1/4 to 11 7/8 on volume of 1.2 million shares.Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker.
and Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker.General Motors and Ford Motor continue their pursuit of the company.
and Daimler-Benz joined the list of companies interested in the British car maker.General Motors and Ford Motor continue their pursuit of the company.
Ford has acquired more than 13% of Jaguar's shares.GM has received U.S. regulatory clearance to buy 15%.
Late Friday, the company reported a loss of $51.3 million for the third quarter.earning $9.2 million a year before.
Abraham Lincoln Federal Savings Bank sank 4 to 13 1/2.announcing a shakeup that will change senior management and reorganize the bank's mortgage business as a separate unit.
after announcing a shakeup that will change senior management and reorganize the bank's mortgage business as a separate unit.The bank said it will establish a loan-loss reserve of $2.5 million to $4 million against a construction loan that is in default.
The bank said it has received no offers and that its board will review whether to continue soliciting bids.which said it was for sale.
it has received no offers.that its board will review whether to continue soliciting bids.
which unleash the chaotic growth of cells that characterizes cancer.damaged.
that the accumulation of several of these altered genes can initiate a cancer.and propel it into a deadly state.
they make proteins that hold a cell's growth in check.functioning normally.
When functioning normally, they make proteins that hold a cell's growth in check.if the genes are damaged -- perhaps by radiation, a chemical or through a chance accident in cell division -- their growth-suppressing proteins no longer work, and cells normally under control turn malignant.
But their growth-suppressing proteins no longer work, and cells normally under control turn malignant.the genes are damaged -- perhaps by radiation, a chemical or through a chance accident in cell division.
But their growth-suppressing proteins no longer work.cells normally under control turn malignant.
Oncogenes must be present for a cell to become malignant.researchers have found them in normal as well as in cancerous cells.
An oncogene may turn proliferating cells malignant.the tumor-suppressor gene has been damaged.
Either copy can make the proteins needed to control cell growth.for cancer to arise, both copies must be impaired.
A person who is born with one defective copy of a suppressor gene, or in whom one copy is damaged early in life, is especially prone to cancer.he need only lose the other copy for a cancer to develop.
The Dedham, Mass., couple knew that any child of theirs had a 50% chance of being at risk for retinoblastoma, an eye cancer that occurs about once every 20,000 births.Bonnie became pregnant in 1987.
having lost an eye to the rare tumor.he was only two months old.
Mr. Quinlan, 30 years old, knew he carried a damaged gene, having lost an eye to the rare tumor when he was only two months old.his mother had suffered the same fate when she was a baby.
after his mother had suffered the same fate.she was a baby.
that little Will Quinlan had not inherited a damaged retinoblastoma supressor gene.and faced no more risk than other children of developing the rare cancer.
All this may not be obvious to the public, which is concerned about advances in treatment.I am convinced this basic research will begin showing results there soon.
Dr. Dryja made his retinoblastoma discovery in 1986.last spring, researchers reported finding a gene called p53 which, if impaired, turns healthy colon cells cancerous.
which turns healthy colon cells cancerous.impaired.
that they are especially prone to cancer.people inherit defective versions of these genes.
The tumor developed.the second, normal copy also was damaged.
when a pediatrician named Alfred G. Knudson Jr. proposed that retinoblastoma stemmed from two separate genetic defects.there was no way to prove Dr. Knudson's "two-hit" theory.
Back then, scientists had no way of ferreting out specific genes.under a microscope they could see the 23 pairs of chromosomes in the cells that contain the genes.
He assumed the missing piece contained a gene or genes whose loss had a critical role in setting off the cancer.he didn't know which gene or genes had disappeared.
But he didn't know which gene or genes had disappeared.a scientific team led by molecular geneticist Webster Cavenee, then at the University of Utah, found the answer.
It was an audacious claim.in Baltimore, Dr. Vogelstein, a young molecular biologist at Johns Hopkins Medical School, believed Dr. Knudson was right, and set out to repeat the Cavenee experiment in cells from other cancers.
and set out to repeat the Cavenee experiment in cells from other cancers.Dr. Vogelstein turned his attention to colon cancer, the second biggest cancer killer in the U.S. after lung cancer.
colon cancer might also arise from multiple "hits" on cancer suppressor genes.it often seems to develop in stages.
It often is preceded by the development of polyps in the bowel, which in some cases become increasingly malignant in identifiable stages.a cascade of genetic damage might be occurring.
benign polyps would develop.both copies of a certain gene were knocked out.
the polyps would progress to malignancy.both copies of a second gene were then deleted.
benign polyps would develop.If both copies of a second gene were deleted.
It was the confirming evidence we all needed that {gene} losses were critical to the development of a common tumor.Dr. Vogelstein had yet to nail the identity of the gene that, if damaged, flipped a colon cell into full-blown malignancy.
that flipped a colon cell into full-blown malignancy.damaged.
Dr. Vogelstein was dubious that the search was over.they found it last winter.
The deletion Dr. Vogelstein found was in exactly the same spot as p53.Mr. Levine had said the p53 gene caused cancer by promoting growth, whereas the Johns Hopkins scientists were looking for a gene that suppressed growth.
But Mr. Levine had said the p53 gene caused cancer by promoting growth.the Johns Hopkins scientists were looking for a gene that suppressed growth.
Despite that they found the two were identical.the Johns Hopkins scientists compared the gene they had found in the human cancer cells with the Mr. Levine's p53 gene.
that the gene, when inherited in a damaged form, may predispose women to the cancer.breast cancer often strikes multiple members of certain families.
that the gene may predispose women to the cancer.inherited in a damaged form.
In a report out last week, John Minna and colleagues at the National Cancer Institute say that about half the cells taken from lung cancer tissue they tested are missing this gene.There are reports from several labs, as yet unpublished, of missing p53 genes in tissue taken from kidney, brain and skin cancers.
people who inherit a defective gene somewhere on one of their two copies of chromosome 3 are especially prone to lung cancer.that the retinoblastoma suppressor gene may be involved in some lung cancers, as well as several other more common cancers, too.
It may even be possible to replace defective genes with healthy versions.no one has come close to doing that so far.
Many investors give Michael Foods about as much chance of getting it together as Humpty Dumpty.now at least there's a glimmer of hope for the stock.
the stock dropped nearly 19%.the company this month announced lower-than-forecast sales of Easy Eggs.
the stock dropped nearly 19%.the company this month announced lower-than-forecast sales of Easy Eggs.
Michael won't confirm the identities of any Easy Egg customers.will it say much of anything else.
These federal-court suits accuse the officers of failing to disclose that Easy Eggs were unlikely to sell briskly enough to justify all of Michael's production capacity.at least Burger King has signed on, and says that by year end it won't be using any shell eggs.
and says that by year end it won't be using any shell eggs..The Miami fast-food chain, owned by Grand Metropolitan of Britain, expects to consume roughly 34 million pounds of liquefied eggs annually.there is reason to believe that Michael's hopes for a bacteria-free, long-shelf-life egg weren't all hype.
So there is reason to believe that Michael's hopes for a bacteria-free, long-shelf-life egg weren't all hype.caution is advisable.
There has been no announcement of the Burger King arrangement by either party, possibly for fear that McDonald's and other fast-food rivals would seize on it in scornful advertising.Burger King operators independently confirm using Michael's product.
The extent of Marriott's use isn't known.Marriott officials couldn't be reached for comment.
not only because of disappointing earnings.{because} the credibility gap is certainly not closing.
The stock, in my opinion, is going to go lower, not only because of disappointing earnings.but the credibility gap is certainly not closing.
The CEO, Richard G. Olson, replied "yes," but wouldn't elaborate.A spokesman said that Mr. Olson was being "conservative" in his estimate.
A spokesman said later that Mr. Olson was being "conservative" in his estimate.the spokesman added that while Michael will earn less than last year's $1.20 a share, it thinks Street estimates of $1 or so are low.
that it thinks Street estimates of $1 or so are low.Michael will earn less than last year's $1.20 a share.
He argues that Michael Foods is misunderstood: "This is a growth company in the packaged food industry -- a rare breed, like finding a white rhino." Earnings aren't keeping pace, he says, because of heavy investments in the egg technologies and drought-related costs in its potato business.Mr. Carver believes the company's egg product won't help the bottom line in the short run.
the company's egg product won't help the bottom line in the short run.it "makes sense -- it's more convenient" and justifies its price because of health and sanitation concerns.
to an alternative egg product made by Michael Foods.which processes potatoes.
Michael, which also processes potatoes, still relies on spuds for about a fourth of its sales and nearly half its pretax profit.dry growing conditions in the Red River Valley of Minnesota and North Dakota are pushing spot prices of potatoes beyond what Michael contracted to pay last spring.
Company lawyers recently sent letters to growers saying that Michael "would take very seriously any effort . . . to divert its contracted-for potatoes to other outlets.that profit margins in the potato business will be down again this year.
Pierre Peladeau, a Canadian newspaper publisher little-known in the U.S., figures to become a big player in North American printing.his ambitions don't end there.
The purchase, expected to be completed by year end, will make Quebecor the second-largest commercial printer in North America, behind only R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co., Chicago..The printing customers that Quebecor will gain through Maxwell Graphics include the Sunday newspaper supplement Parade, Time, Sports Illustrated and TV Guide.the transaction is just Mr. Peladeau's latest step in a larger design: to build Quebecor through acquisitions into an integrated paper, publishing and printing concern with a reach throughout North America.
Quebecor still lags in the Quebec circulars market.Mr. Peladeau's former employees are expanding across Canada.
but plunged to under 10,000.the La Presse strike ended.
but plunged to under 10,000.the La Presse strike ended.
The tabloid's circulation soared to 80,000, but plunged to under 10,000 when the La Presse strike ended.Mr. Peladeau stuck with the venture.
to launch the Journal de Montreal.Quebecor publishes a second tabloid in Montreal, the struggling 18-month-old Montreal Daily News; dailies in Quebec City and Winnipeg, Manitoba; and dozens of weeklies covering most of Quebec.
A series of recent acquisitions made it the dominant magazine publisher in Quebec.After a recent merger, it is the only province-wide distributor of magazines and newspapers in Quebec.
to launch the Journal de Montreal Quebecor also publishes a second tabloid in Montreal, the struggling 18-month-old Montreal Daily News; dailies in Quebec City and Winnipeg, Manitoba; and dozens of weeklies covering most of Quebec..A series of recent acquisitions made it the dominant magazine publisher in Quebec..After a recent merger, it is also the only province-wide distributor of magazines and newspapers in Quebec.with Maxwell Communication, the company controls 54% of Donohue Inc., a Quebec City pulp and paper concern.
Quebecor hasn't decided how it will finance its share of the purchase.it most likely will use debt.
The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued New York state for age discrimination against appointed state judges.the commission intervened in a Connecticut state judge's age-bias suit in federal court in New Haven.
the mandatory-retirement age hurts the court system.it deprives the state of experienced judges still capable of serving on the bench.
he isn't eligible to be reappointed to the bench at the end of the year.Justice Rubin turned 76 on May 9.
The suit seeks a permanent injunction, back pay for judges who have been forced to retire, reinstatement of retired judges and "other affirmative relief necessary to eradicate the effects of (New York's) unlawful employment practices.The suit's impact on New York may be narrow.
Most New York judges are elected.the federal age-discrimination law doesn't apply to elected officials.
Under New York law, elected judges must retire at age 70.but can be appointed to two-year terms until they reach 76.
but then can be appointed to two-year terms.they reach 76.
A spokeswoman for the state's Office of Court Administration declined to comment on the suit.she said the state currently has 35 appointed judges who are over 70.
Most New York judges are elected.In Connecticut most state judges are appointed by the governor and approved by the state legislature.
Mr. Thornburgh will be free to disband the strike forces according to David Runkel, a Justice Department spokesman.Congress approves a $479 million appropriation for federal law-enforcement and drug-interdiction agencies.
that organized-crime activity will increase.the units are dissolved and their responsibilities transferred to U.S. attorneys' offices.
once the units are dissolved.their responsibilities transferred to U.S. attorneys' offices.
The Eastern District unit in Brooklyn, N.Y., lost seven of its 15 attorneys this year.the lawyers were troubled by the proposed reorganization.
Some former strike-force personnel say the units have already begun to break up.Mr. Runkel contends there has been no exodus of strike-force lawyers.
27 lawyers have left.21 have been hired.
27 lawyers have left and 21 have been hired.Mr. Thornburgh announced his plan.
Mr. Thornburgh would be required to reinstate the units next year.an proposed omnibus crime bill is passed.
Shelly Hancock, a male county court judge in Houston, refused to let a woman plead guilty to a drunk-driving charge.her skirt stopped three inches above her knees.
The woman appeared in court Thursday to enter her plea.when she started to approach the bench, she was stopped by Judge Hancock.
but she was stopped by Judge Hancock.she started to approach the bench.
Warner has filed a $1 billion breach of contract suit in Los Angeles Superior Court against Sony and the Guber-Peters duo.who are countersuing Warner for trying to interfere in Sony's acquisition of Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc. and Guber Peters Entertainment Co. in two transactions valued at over $5 billion.
attorneys for the two sides apparently began talking again yesterday in an attempt to settle the matter before Thursday.settlement talks had been dropped.
they had taken Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters at their word.the producers told them that getting out of the contract would be no problem because of a previous oral agreement.
the Sony executives hadn't seen the contract.it wasn't relevant once Guber and Peters told them Warner would let them terminate it at any time.
because "it wasn't relevant.Guber and Peters told them Warner would let them terminate it at any time.
who did have access to the contracts.who weren't part of the negotiations between Sony and the duo.
Yesterday, in documents filed in connection with that case, Warner accused Sony officials of falsely claiming that they never read the five-year contract requiring the two producers to make movies exclusively for Columbia.Warner executives filed new sworn affidavits denying claims by Messrs..Guber and Peters that the two sides had an oral agreement that enabled the producers to terminate their contract with Warner should the opportunity to run a major studio come up.
denying claims by Messrs..Guber and Peters that the two sides had an oral agreement that enabled the producers to terminate their contract with Warner should the opportunity to run a major studio come up.Sony intends to prove that the oral agreement did in fact exist, and that even the existing written contract doesn't preclude the producers from taking executive posts at another studio.
new sworn affidavits denying claims by Messrs..Guber and Peters that the two sides had an oral agreement that enabled the producers to terminate their contract with Warner should the opportunity to run a major studio come up.that the oral agreement did exist.
that the oral agreement did in fact exist.that even the existing written contract doesn't preclude the producers from taking executive posts at another studio.
that Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters could in theory run Columbia.still fulfilling their contract to produce movies for Warner.
Such a dual role would be "impractical and unethical that concept is as silly as suggesting that the head coach of the Los Angeles Dodgers could simultaneously be general manager of the San Francisco Giants.Warner said it paid the two producers a fixed annual salary of $3 million.
Boeing Co. 's third-quarter profit leaped 68%.Wall Street's attention was focused on the picket line, not the bottom line.
but Wall Street's attention was focused on the picket line, not the bottom line.the earnings report unfolded as representatives of the world's No. 1 jet maker and the striking Machinists union came back to the negotiating table for their first meeting in two weeks.
In fact, the earnings report unfolded.representatives of the world's No. 1 jet maker and the striking Machinists union came back to the negotiating table for their first meeting in two weeks.
the parties will continue to sit down daily.a new settlement proposal emerges or the talks break off again.
until a new settlement proposal emerges.the talks break off again.
Sales climbed 71% to $6.36 billion from $3.72 billion.the company capitalized on the ravenous global demand for commercial airliners.
the precise impact on Boeing's sales, earnings, cash flow and short-term investment position couldn't be determined.it's impossible to gauge how long the walkout by 55,000 Machinists rank and file will last.
Despite the progress, Boeing indicated that the work stoppage, now in its 27th day, will have "a serious adverse impact" on the current quarter.The investment community strongly believes that the strike will be settled before there is any lasting effect on either Boeing or its work force.
that the strike will be settled.there is any lasting effect on either Boeing or its work force.
those dollars actually would just be deferred until 1990.the company could see fourth-quarter revenue shrink by nearly $5 billion if it isn't able to deliver any more planes this year.
Although the company could see fourth-quarter revenue shrink by nearly $5 billion.it isn't able to deliver any more planes this year.
Although the company could see fourth-quarter revenue shrink by nearly $5 billion if it isn't able to deliver any more planes this year, those dollars actually would just be deferred until 1990.the company is certain to get out some aircraft with just supervisors and other non-striking employees on hand.
Boeing had been counting on turning 96 aircraft out the door in the present period.the union rejected the company's offer and the strike was launched with the graveyard shift of Oct. 4.
Before the union rejected the company's offer.the strike was launched with the graveyard shift of Oct. 4.
It's not a pretty picture.it would just mean a great first and second quarter next year.
You don't want to minimize this and say nobody is looking at it.the strike hasn't gone on long enough for Boeing to lose business in any real sense.
the company's share price has held up so well.in Mr. Smith's words, "most companies would have unraveled" by now.
the company's share price has held up so well when, in Mr. Smith's words, "most companies would have unraveled" by now.Boeing went through its normal verbal gymnastics and played up the downside.
that the company "faces significant challenges and risks," on both its commercial and government contracts.that spending on Pentagon programs is shrinking, and Boeing is either the prime contractor or a major supplier on many important military projects, including the B-2 Stealth bomber, the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and the Air Force's next-generation tactical fighter.
that spending on Pentagon programs is shrinking.Boeing is either the prime contractor or a major supplier on many important military projects, including the B-2 Stealth bomber, the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and the Air Force's next-generation tactical fighter.
Because of cost overruns on fixed-price military work the company's defense business will record "a significant loss" in 1989.production-rate increases that have been implemented on the 737, 747, 757 and 767 programs have resulted in "serious work force skill-dilution problems.
Suppliers and subcontractors are experiencing heightened pressure to support delivery schedules.of course, there's the unsteady labor situation.
Besides the Machinists pact, accords representing 30,000 of the company's engineering and technical employees in the Puget Sound and Wichita, Kan., areas expire in early December.a contract with the United Auto Workers at the company's helicopter plant in Philadelphia expired Oct. 15.
On top of that, Boeing would make cost-of-living adjustments projected to be 5% for each year of the contract.The union has called the offer "insulting.
that the company provided inaccurate cost information to the Air Force.negotiating contracts to replace the aluminum skins on the KC-135 tanker aircraft.
This is virgin territory, unclaimed.it's going to be nasty.
TransCanada declined to comment on the Foothills application.last week Gerald Maier, president and chief executive officer of TransCanada, said the company "intends to be a party to any transportation system that goes up there" and that it would consider joint ventures with other players to ensure it has a role.
the company "intends to be a party to any transportation system that goes up there.that it would consider joint ventures with other players.
the company "intends to be a party to any transportation system that goes up there.that it would consider joint ventures with other players.
A number of issues still need to be resolved.Canadian regulators give any project the final go-ahead.
the project would be viable.gas prices reach US$3.25 a thousand cubic feet by 1995, in current dollars, up from a current spot price of about US$1.50.
First, the price of natural gas will have to almost double.U.S. gas buyers must decide whether they want to enter firm contracts for Mackenzie delta gas or develop Alaskan reserves in the Prudhoe Bay area first, a project that has been on hold for more than a decade.
it's too early to say whether Alaskan or Mackenzie delta gas would flow to market first.it plans to seek regulatory approval to build an alternative line, the Alaska Natural Gas Transportation System further north toward Alaska.
it would build another smaller pipeline connecting Mackenzie Delta reserves to the Alaska mainline.that option is favored by gas buyers and regulators.
U.S. gas buyers must also decide whether they want to enter firm contracts for Mackenzie delta gas or develop Alaskan reserves in the Prudhoe Bay area first, a project that has been on hold for more than a decade.It's likely that regulators will try to forge some kind of consensus between the would-be pipeline builders before undertaking any hearings into rival projects.
that regulators will try to forge some kind of consensus between the would-be pipeline builders.undertaking any hearings into rival projects.
that isn't in the cards.the company would prefer to work with other "interested parties" on a joint proposal.
well, that's their strategy.they think it gives them some kind of priority position.
In recent years, unions and community groups have won big commitments from banks to make low-interest loans in certain neighborhoods by threatening to hold up proposed acquisitions with protests to the Fed about reinvestment act compliance.Few petitions have actually delayed or scuttled mergers.
it was disappointed by the delay.it would cooperate with regulatory authorities.
Florida National would almost double First Union's banking franchise in Florida to $17 billion in assets.acquired.
Texas Air has run into difficulty reselling about $20 million of debt securities because of problems in the junk bond market.plans to raise another $20 million through changes to an insurance policy have hit a snag.
It is unclear what caused the creditors to do an about-face on exploring alternatives to Eastern's new reorganization plan.since Eastern first filed for Chapter 11 protection March 9, it has consistently promised to pay creditors 100 cents on the dollar.
However it has consistently promised to pay creditors 100 cents on the dollar.Eastern first filed for Chapter 11 protection March 9.
some committee members successfully argued that there's little reason yet to explore a different plan, according to one person familiar with the creditors' position.the carrier is still pledging to do that.
that the committee has not yet taken any position on Eastern's reorganization plan.that the two sides were still negotiating.
Such a change meant the reorganization plan the creditors had agreed on was no longer valid.the two sides had to begin negotiating again.
The move comes.Paribas announced that it was preparing to bid for 66.7% control of Navigation Mixte.
Munich-based Allianz's brief explanatory statement said it is acting to protect its own interests as a shareholder of Navigation Mixte.The Allianz statement reinforced the belief that the takeover battle could be a long one.
Allianz's entry reflects the increasing eagerness of West German companies to get involved in what until now were considered internal French affairs.Deutsche Bank, Dresdner Bank and Commerzbank all have expressed eagerness to expand in France before 1992.
Commerzbank had hoped to buy a stake in Credit Lyonnais.the Socialists returned to government last year and canceled plans to privatize the large French bank.
The banks we think would fit into our concept are either government-owned or not for sale.Deutsche Bank would be able to pay a good price.
they said Allianz currently holds between 5% and 10% of Navigation Mixte, an apparent increase from the 5% stake that Navigation Mixte officials had earlier announced.Allianz officials weren't willing to comment in any detail on their plans.
Paris market sources said they believed Allianz was buying yesterday morning.Navigation Mixte moved up 108 francs ($17.19) to close at 1,908 francs in heavy trading.
Allianz currently holds between 5% and 10% of Navigation Mixte, an apparent increase from the 5% stake that Navigation Mixte officials had earlier announced.Allianz holds a 50% stake in Navigation Mixte's insurance subsidiary, one of France's largest insurance groups.
which it bought for about 6.5 billion francs.Paribas launched its bid.
Allianz's statement stressed the company's previously announced position that Paribas's offer price is too low.Allianz suggested, without saying so directly, that it regrets that Paribas isn't bidding for all of Navigation Mixte's shares.
that remaining Navigation Mixte shares will fall in value.Paribas wins its 66.7.
which couldn't be sure of selling all their shares.they tendered to Paribas.
that it will boost its Navigation Mixte stake as it sees fit over the coming days to protect itself.it has French regulatory officials' approval.
Paribas currently intends to offer 1,850 francs a share for Navigation Mixte shares that receive full dividends this year..It is to offer 1,800 francs for shares created on July 1, which receive partial dividends.it would offer to swap three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share.
Paribas already holds about 18.7% of Navigation Mixte.the acquisition of the additional 48% would cost it about 11 billion francs under its current bid.
depending on how many holders of Navigation Mixte warrants exchange them for shares.the bid expires.
MiniScribe has been on the rocks.it disclosed early this year that its earnings reports for 1988 weren't accurate.
MiniScribe has been on the rocks.it disclosed early this year that its earnings reports for 1988 weren't accurate.
The thrift hired an investment banker earlier this month to advise it regarding a possible sale or merger.Mercury is shrinking itself, part of its plan to change its emphasis from buying mortgage loans from mortgage brokers to making loans directly.
Rally's, a fast-food chain based in Louisville, Ky., is contending that Mr. Sugarman and two other company directors failed to disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission that they intended to acquire a big Rally stake.Mr. Sugarman has contended that the other major shareholder group has ties to a competing fast food chain, Wendy's International Inc.
The ad agency had approached Ms. Midler about appearing.she declined.
but she declined.The agency turned to a former backup singer for Ms. Midler.
the sellers have appropriated what is not theirs.a distinctive voice of a professional singer is widely known and is deliberately imitated in order to sell a product.
The award is likely to force Madison Avenue to further rethink how they use famous songs in ads.far less than the $10 million, including punitive damages, that Ms. Midler sought.
The award that Ms. Midler sought, is likely to force Madison Avenue to further rethink how they use famous songs in ads.Last year's appeals court decision spawned several suits, reportedly including a recent action by the heirs of singer Bobby Darin against McDonald's Corp. over its "Mac Tonight" TV commercials, a rough parody of Mr. Darin's "Mack the Knife" trademark.
The appeals-court decision last year was particularly surprising.the same court had dismissed a similar case in 1970 involving singer Nancy Sinatra and a tire ad -- also a Young & Rubicam product.
that Nancy Sinatra is not distinctive.that Bette Midler is.
I am not sure that judges, many of whom I like very much, are proper repositories for making distinctions about pop singers.that the latest decisions are having a chilling effect.
it acquired the tissue operations of Buhrmann-Tetterode N.V. of the Netherlands for about $77 million.the acquisition includes production assets of Invercon Papermils, a maker of household tissue products for the U.K. and Ireland.
the tender offer is being extended until 5 p.m. EST tomorrow.Anchor is still seeking this waiver.
Some analysts predict that in the absence of market-moving news to push the U.S. unit sharply higher or lower, the currency is likely to drift below 1.80 marks this week.others reject the view, and forecast the dollar will continue to hold its current tight trading pattern.
foreign exchange dealers said that any hopes that the pound would soon post significant gains have evaporated.sterling bounced back from session lows in a bout of short-covering yesterday.
that Mrs. Thatcher has hit the lowest popularity rating of any British leader.polling began 50 years ago.
that statements made over the weekend to quell concern about the stability of Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's government and the future of her economic program largely failed to reassure investors and bolster the flagging British unit.Comments by John Major failed to damp market concern, despite his pledge to maintain relatively high British interest rates.
According to one London-based analyst, even higher interest rates won't help the pound.Britain's government continues to appear unstable.
According to one London-based analyst, even higher interest rates won't help the pound if Britain's government continues to appear unstable.One U.S. trader dismissed sterling doomsayers while acknowledging there is little immediate upside potential for the U.K. unit.
One U.S. trader, however, dismissed sterling doomsayers.acknowledging there is little immediate upside potential for the U.K. unit.
There is no question that the situation is bad.we may be painting a gloomier picture than we should.
the pound will continue to trade in a very volatile fashion, with "fits of being oversold and overbought.recovering its losses.
He predicts the pound will continue to trade in a very volatile fashion, with "fits of being oversold and overbought" before recovering its losses.Dealers note that the general lack of enthusiasm for the yen has helped bolster the U.S. dollar.
Commercial Federal Savings will continue to market Visa and MasterCard programs.Monogram provides "operational and marketing support" and actually owns the accounts.
hundreds of thousands of East Germans massed in the streets of Leipzig, Halle and Schwerin to call for internal freedoms and the legalization of the New Forum opposition group.the country's new leader, Egon Krenz, prepared to travel to Moscow today for talks with Soviet leader Gorbachev.
hundreds of thousands of East Germans massed in the streets of Leipzig, Halle and Schwerin to call for internal freedoms and the legalization of the New Forum opposition group.Krenz vowed to preserve the Communist Party's hold on political power and said East Germans shouldn't destabilize the nation with unrealistic demands.
they could be sentenced to death.convicted.
A court in Jerusalem sentenced a Palestinian to 16 life terms for forcing a bus off a cliff July 6, killing 16 people.He received 20-year sentences for each of the 24 passengers injured.
the White House wants to continue producing the weapons even after an international treaty calling for their destruction is signed.the Kremlin has urged a ban on output of the poison gases.
to continue producing the weapons.an international treaty calling for their destruction is signed.
Baker's remarks came.the White House urged both sides to honor the truce.
armed police would replace soldiers in Tiananmen Square as part of a scaling down of Beijing's five-month-old state of emergency.the U.S. Embassy has filed three protests in as many days with China's government, alleging harassment of diplomats and their families.
hundreds of suvivors accused the government of a feeble response following the temblors.rescue teams continued searching for victims.
Britain's Thatcher summoned senior advisers for strategy talks.opinion polls showed the prime minister's popularity had hit a record low following the resignation last Thursday of Chancellor of the Exchequer Lawson.
Britain's Thatcher summoned senior advisers for strategy talks.opinion polls showed the prime minister's popularity had hit a record low following the resignation last Thursday of Chancellor of the Exchequer Lawson.
Lawmakers in Hungary approved legislation granting amnesty to many people convicted of crimes punishable by less than three years in prison.They established an office to control government and party finances.
In the first nine months of 1989, Nixdorf said, sales rose 5% amid good growth in selected areas such as banks and trading companies.The company cited some success in damping cost increases and said it wants to return to profitability in 1990.
which surprised analysts.it appeared to be unsolicited.
GE's Kidder Peabody unit said it would stop doing stock-index arbitrage for its own account.Merrill Lynch said it was halting such trading entirely.
Two more securities firms bowed to the outcry over program trading.the Big Board met with angry stock specialists.
that all manufacturers of an anti-miscarriage drug are liable for injuries or deaths.the actual maker isn't known.
Boeing posted a 68% jump in third-quarter earnings.Wall Street's attention was focused on the continued strike at the aircraft maker.
that the company expects somewhat slower per-share earnings growth in 1990.annual growth should return to the traditional figure of about 7% thereafter.
that the company expects somewhat slower per-share earnings growth in 1990.although annual growth should return to the traditional figure of about 7%.
As factors contributing to the temporary slowdown, he cited one-time rate reductions prescribed by California regulators as a prelude to a new framework that removes profit constraints.He mentioned increased capital investment by Pacific Bell for network improvements.
The engine plant may encompass plans for a joint components venture with Jaguar.a separate engine plant may be built as part of GM's planned tie-up with the British luxury car maker.
Cray Research said development costs of several competing projects were squeezing its earnings growth.it announced the planned breakup in May.
the decline occurred.revenue rose 30% to more than $8.3 million from $6.4 million a year earlier.
it filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code and announced a 35% reduction in its world-wide employment.it was scrapping one of its major new products, a 760-megabyte drive.
which didn't hold much promise of generating substantial orders.technically proficient.
which didn't hold much promise of generating substantial orders.financing problems caused a nine-month delay in getting the product to market.
the swap will allow both state-controlled companies to reinforce operations in their main markets that the move shows the dynamism of France's state-sector concerns.The approval ends any hope that Banque Nationale de Paris, another state-sector bank, might have had about taking Credit Lyonnais's place in the accord.
The move will help the bank to keep up with international solvency ratios being phased in by the Bank for International Settlements.and will represent the first time that its voting shares have been held by a party other than the government.
Japanese companies have long been accused of sacrificing profit to boost sales.Fujitsu Ltd. has taken that practice to a new extreme.
it issued the low bid.it wanted a foot in the door of a potentially lucrative market.
We desperately wanted the contract.we want experience in the field.
We expect a big market in the future.in the long term it will be profitable.
I understand the firm's enthusiasm in getting the deal.such a large company would have been better off showing a little more discretion.
I understand the firm's enthusiasm in getting the deal, but such a large company would have been better off showing a little more discretion.Fujitsu officials admitted they may have been a little overzealous.
and will take measures.this kind of thing doesn't happen in the future.
to win a contract to design a mapping system for the city of Hiroshima's waterworks.Fujitsu won the right to design the specifications for a computerized system that will show water lines throughout the city.
Fujitsu will have to design the system.it would be compatible with other makers' equipment.
A waterworks official said Fujitsu will have to design the system so it would be compatible with other makers' equipment.industry officials expressed concern that the initial project might give Fujitsu an edge in winning more lucrative contracts later.
Japanese local governments are expected to invest heavily in computer systems over the next few years.many companies expect that field to provide substantial revenue.
No foreign companies bid on the Hiroshima project, according to the bureau.the Japanese practice of deep discounting often is cited by Americans as a classic barrier to entry in Japan's market.
Karstadt AG said sales for its domestic group rose 4.6% in the first nine months of 1989 from a year earlier.The West German retailing group said that the results of the first three quarters suggest it will meet its profit goal for the year.
Earnings at the department-store division should remain at least stable.income at the mail-order and tourism units is likely to fall slightly from 1988.
Executives at Nekoosa couldn't be reached.officials at Georgia Pacific declined to comment.
Executives at Nekoosa couldn't be reached, and officials at Georgia Pacific declined to comment.Analysts were surprised.
Analysts, however, were surprised.the tender offer appeared unsolicited.
The two companies would appear to be a logical fit because of their complementary lines.analysts described the offer as fair.
The two companies would appear to be a logical fit because of their complementary lines, and analysts described the offer, representing a 36% premium over Nekoosa's market price, as fair.industry observers still questioned whether Georgia Pacific will ultimately prevail.
The two companies would appear to be a logical fit because of their complementary lines, and analysts described the offer, representing a 36% premium over Nekoosa's market price, as fair.But industry observers questioned whether Georgia Pacific will ultimately prevail.
Nekoosa has lagged the market in the same period.Georgia-Pacific's stock has outperformed the market in the past two years.
According to the Value Line Investment Survey, demand for Nekoosa's commodity paper has weakened, prompting earnings to decline by 6.6% in the third quarter ended Sept. 30.Georgia-Pacific "is in a comparatively good position to deal with weakening paper markets.
Georgia-Pacific "is in a comparatively good position to deal with weakening paper markets.its production is concentrated not in the Northwest but in the South.
because its production is concentrated not in the Northwest but in the South.it isn't exposed to the weakening newsprint business, and is strong in the less-cyclical tissue business.
Georgia-Pacific's $530 million acquisition of Brunswick Pulp & Paper Co. last year.which included the assumption of $135 million in debt.
Analog Devices Inc. said it may purchase as many as one million of its common shares over the next several months.Analog said that a one million share buy-back program announced in March is substantially complete.
to be able to win.called on.
that the Navy possesses its own air force (the carrier fleet) and its own army (the Marines).which has its own air force.
Of course these turf battles are unseemly, wasteful and potentially dangerous and should be resolved in the interest of national security.Mr. Lehman seems to be part of the problem rather than part of the answer.
who resigned as Navy secretary.he couldn't get his 1,000-ship Navy.
I personally do not want to hasten Mr. Lehman's demise.I can see him figuring prominently in his own article.
that was his.Mr. Corr signed on.
Succeeding him as chairman and chief executive will be Frank Lorenzo, chairman and chief executive of Continental's parent, Texas Air Corp.The airline named Mickey Foret as president.
Top executives at Continental haven't lasted long, especially those recruited from outside.Mr. Corr's tenure was shorter than most.
The 48-year-old Mr. Corr was hired.he was credited with returning Trans World Airlines Inc. to profitability while he was its president from 1986 to 1988.
with returning Trans World Airlines Inc. to profitability.he was its president from 1986 to 1988.
he was an executive with a manufacturing concern.that.
At Continental he cut money-losing operations, which helped produce a modest profit in this year's second quarter.Mr. Corr, a stunt pilot in his spare time, was understood to be frustrated by what he regarded as limited freedom under Mr. Lorenzo.
Mr. Lorenzo is known for keeping close tabs on Texas Air's operating units.not officially an executive at Continental during Mr. Corr's tenure.
It's unclear what role, if any, Mr. Lorenzo's recent exploration of a possible sale of a stake in Continental had in Mr. Corr's departure.One source familiar with the airline said that Mr. Corr wasn't informed in advance during the summer when Mr. Lorenzo began discussions with potential buyers.
Another longtime ally, Phil Bakes, currently heads Eastern, now in Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings.Mr. Bakes had a turn at running Continental.
The company acquired the debt.it paid $155 million to purchase Wilson last year.
The company acquired the debt.it paid $155 million to purchase Wilson last year.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
That is.Sidhpur has a near-monopoly on the world's supply of flea seed.
Americans have begun scarfing up psyllium in their breakfast cereals.the link to cholesterol was disclosed.
this dusty farm district could become the epicenter of a health-food fad to rival all fads since cod-liver oil.further research proves the seed's benefits.
it will be huge.psyllium takes the place of oat bran.
it is as good a cash crop as mustard or fenugreek, a legume.they have no desire to eat a bowl of psyllium each morning, and, perhaps, little need.
that has been used for centuries by folk doctors here, mainly as a laxative and anti-diarrheal.Folk doctors prescribe it for kidney, bladder and urethra problems, duodenal ulcers and hemorrhoids..Some apply it to gouty joints.
For decades, psyllium husk has been the main ingredient in such laxatives as Procter & Gamble Co. 's Metamucil, the top-selling brand in the U.S., and Ciba-Geigy Corp. 's Fiberall.some time ago, researchers discovered that soluble fibers also lower cholesterol levels in the blood.
For decades, psyllium husk has been the main ingredient in such laxatives as Procter & Gamble Co. 's Metamucil, the top-selling brand in the U.S., and Ciba-Geigy Corp. 's Fiberall.that soluble fibers lower cholesterol levels in the blood.
The FDA has asked Kellogg and General Mills to show research that their cereals are safe.It ordered P&G to produce more studies to buttress its claims that Metamucil can lower cholesterol.
The FDA has asked Kellogg and General Mills to show research that their cereals are safe..It also ordered P&G to produce more studies to buttress its claims that Metamucil can lower cholesterol.the agency hasn't yanked psyllium off store shelves.
other companies are expected to rush to market with psyllium products.the FDA approves the new uses of psyllium.
It's going to be a sensational thing," says Mr. Krishnamurthy of P&G in Bombay..Says psyllium exporter Mr. Patel: "I just got back yesterday from the U.S..In the newspapers, on the radio and TV, psyllium is everywhere.the news of the boom has yet to trickle down to the farmers.
They only know of one use for the crop, as a laxative.with psyllium prices currently languishing in the wake of a bumper crop, they think of the seed as a marginal crop, something to grow between summer wheat crops.
You get a rain at the wrong time.the crop is ruined.
They want psyllium prices low for their purchases next year.there's a catch.
Small crops are grown in Pakistan, France, Spain, Italy, Belgium and Brazil.their quality can't compare to that of Indian psyllium.
there are other spots on the globe, and in India, where the seed could be grown.no one has made a serious effort to transplant the crop.
Many farmers have decided to plant mustard, fennel, cumin, fenugreek or castor-oil seeds.when next year's psyllium crop is harvested in March, it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom.
So it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom.next year's psyllium crop is harvested in March.
So when next year's psyllium crop is harvested in March, it may be smaller than the 16,000 metric tons of the past few years -- right at the crest of the psyllium boom.the world could experience its first psyllium shortage.
Small businesses say a recent trend is like a dream come true: more-affordable rates for employee-health insurance, initially at least.then they wake up to a nightmare.
Small businesses say a recent trend is like a dream come true: more-affordable rates for employee-health insurance, initially at least.But they wake up to a nightmare.
The reasonable first-year rates can be followed by increases of 60% or more.a covered employee files a major claim.
the last increase coming.one of its three workers developed a herniated disk.
the last increase coming.one of its three workers developed a herniated disk.
She said her employer can't afford the rate increases.she fears she won't find another job with a benefit plan covering her ailment.
that small businesses not only can't keep reasonably priced employee-health insurance.claims are filed.
but often can't get coverage at all.a worker is termed medically uninsurable.
collect premiums from the healthy, dump the sick.let them pay their own bills.
the insurance industry has turned to the small-employer market that was once a backwater for them.larger companies increasingly self-insure, or use reserves to pay their own workers' medical bills.
the insurance industry has turned to the small-employer market that was once a backwater for them.larger companies increasingly self-insure, or use reserves to pay their own workers' medical bills.
Insurance companies will offer a good rate.no one is sick.
Insurance companies will offer a good rate if no one is sick.it's a roll of the dice.
One case of cancer or a high-risk pregnancy with a sick infant.rates go up 40% to 60%.
Small-business people end up paying insurance premiums worth two to three times the cost of one illness.some of its member companies have been denied insurance because individual workers had medical problems that ranged from a mild cardiac condition to psychological counseling after a divorce, hemorrhoids and overweight.
some of its member companies have been denied insurance.individual workers had medical problems that ranged from a mild cardiac condition to psychological counseling after a divorce, hemorrhoids and overweight.
that stiff competition among its members to insure businesses likely to be good risks during the first year of coverage has aggravated the problem in the small-business market.that rapid rate increases are directly tied to the soaring cost of health care.
insurance companies use policies aimed at excluding bad risks.their competitors do.
insurance companies use policies aimed at excluding bad risks because their competitors do.the general practice makes it more difficult to combine small groups of people into larger groups.
to combine small groups of people into larger groups.spreading the risk over a larger base of premiums.
You can't ask one carrier to underwrite on social grounds.that might destroy it in the marketplace.
You can't ask one carrier to underwrite on social grounds.that might destroy it in the marketplace.
that is strongly opposed by small business who say it would just compound the insurance-cost problems.they support the idea, included in the Kennedy-Waxman bill, of new laws or regulations requiring greater use of community rating, which pegs rates to the use of health care by a community or other large group, and is designed to prevent insurance companies from taking only low-risk small companies as clients.
they support the idea, included in the Kennedy-Waxman bill, of new laws or regulations requiring greater use of community rating, which pegs rates to the use of health care by a community or other large group, and is designed to prevent insurance companies from taking only low-risk small companies as clients.first on the list of priorities is to prohibit state laws requiring the inclusion of specialty items, such as psychiatric care, in basic health plans.
there were only 70 mental-health clinics in the state.the state of Wisconsin mandated that mental-health care be covered.
But first on the list of priorities is to prohibit state laws requiring the inclusion of specialty items, such as psychiatric care, in basic health plans.The insurance-industry association strongly disagrees with the proposed community rating, which "doesn't save one dollar.
The complexities of the insurance problem make the outcome difficult to predict.to Ms. Allen, the employee whose back problem triggered a huge insurance-rate increase, the issue was simple.
What good is having health insurance.it's so expensive that it becomes impossible to keep after only one major claim.
Belgium's inflation has been rising steadily for the past year.the latest rise is slower than gains in September and August.
Reiss & Co. B.V. of the Netherlands filed a request with the Federal Trade Commission under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act for permission to buy more than $15 million of Nashua's stock but less than 25%.an affiliate of Unicorp Canada disclosed a stake of less than 5% in Nashua, according to Daniel M. Junius, Nashua's treasurer.
Nashua's stock has fluctuated sharply on takeover speculation, rising to a high for the year of $42.875 a share in June from $29.75 in March.the company has had weak results so far this year, with earnings declining 43% to $13.7 million, or $1.43 a share, on a 4% decline in revenue to $713.5 million through the first nine months of the year.
Nashua announced the Reiss request.the market closed.
it amended its shareholder rights plan by reducing to 10% from 20% the level of ownership by an outsider that would trigger the issuance to other holders of rights to buy additional shares of Nashua common at half price.the company's board authorized the purchase of up to an additional one million shares.
that the company nonetheless is attractive as a "classic breakup candidate.Nashua's performance this year has been "atrocious.
that while Nashua's performance this year has been "atrocious.the company is attractive as a "classic breakup candidate.
that the company nonetheless is attractive as a "classic breakup candidate.there's no similarity between its {four} businesses.
The current account deficit on France's balance of payments narrowed to 1.48 billion French francs ($236.8 million) in August from a revised 2.1 billion francs in July.the July figure was estimated at a deficit of 613 million francs.
the company would provide more details today.that it expects to reach a definitive agreement by the end of the week.
Manufacturers have survived the turmoil in China largely unscathed..Signs of revival seem evident in Hong Kong's hard-hit hotel sector.in the stock and real-estate markets, activity remains spotty even though prices have regained much of their lost ground.
But in the stock and real-estate markets, activity remains spotty.prices have regained much of their lost ground.
These benefits seem secure despite China's current economic and political troubles.to Hong Kong, China isn't purely business.
But to Hong Kong, China isn't purely business.It is the sovereign power that, come 1997, will take over this British colony.
That promise sounds shaky.those same leaders have fallen back on Marxist dogma and brute force to crush their nation's democracy movement.
That promise sounds shaky.those same leaders have fallen back on Marxist dogma and brute force to crush their nation's democracy movement.
Outflows of people and capital from Hong Kong have been growing.the sovereignty issue first arose in the early 1980s.
Only four months have passed since the Beijing massacre.few are prepared to predict its ultimate impact.
It may experience an upswing or two in between.with local investors shaken by China's political and economic turmoil a genuine recovery may not arrive until Hong Kong can prove itself secure under Chinese sovereignty.
But a genuine recovery may not arrive.Hong Kong can prove itself secure under Chinese sovereignty.
But a genuine recovery may not arrive.Hong Kong can prove itself secure under Chinese sovereignty.
the scenario as depicted by the middle-of-the-road group bears a remarkable resemblance to the difficulties Hong Kong currently faces.the China crisis erupted.
the scenario as depicted by the middle-of-the-road group bears a remarkable resemblance to the difficulties Hong Kong currently faces.the China crisis erupted.
Such a pace of growth would be unusually slow for Hong Kong.respectable for mature industrialized economies.
Given Hong Kong's record, Mr. Mushkat's "realists" might have sounded unduly conservative.the interviews took place two years ago.
the government has projected 1989 GDP growth of 5%.taking into account the fallout from the China crisis.
a further downward revision may be justified.the economy stages a more convincing rally.
We aren't looking at anything like a doomsday scenario.clearly we're entering a difficult period.
The market has grown relatively quiet since the China crisis.if the Japanese return in force, their financial might could compensate to some extent for local investors' waning commitment.
But their financial might could compensate to some extent for local investors' waning commitment.the Japanese return in force.
Even before the China crisis, weak U.S. demand was slowing local economic growth.strong consumer spending in the U.S. two years ago helped propel the local economy at more than twice its current rate.
Conversely, strong consumer spending in the U.S. two years ago helped propel the local economy at more than twice its current rate.that global forces will continue to govern Hong Kong's economic rhythm.
local businessmen will probably overcome their 1997 worries and continue doing business as usual.external conditions, such as U.S. demand, swing in the territory's favor.
Indeed, a few economists maintain that global forces will continue to govern Hong Kong's economic rhythm.economic arguments, however solid, won't necessarily impress Hong Kong's 5.7 million people.
having fled China's unending cycles of political repression and poverty.the Communist Party took power in 1949.
Many are refugees, having fled China's unending cycles of political repression and poverty since the Communist Party took power in 1949.many of those now planning to leave Hong Kong can't easily be swayed by momentary improvements in the colony's political and economic climate.
hardly anyone doubts that it poses a threat.no one professes to know the exact cost of such a "brain drain" to the economy.
economic growth is bound to be affected.the economy loses a big portion of its work force that also happens to include its most productive members.
When the economy loses a big portion of its work force.that happens to include its most productive members.
When the economy loses a big portion of its work force.that happens to include its most productive members.
big institutional investors are likely to continue these strategies at full blast.Wall Street is retreating from computer-driven program trading.
most Wall Street firms remain open to handle program trading for customers.the trading halts are offered as a sign of concern about recent stock market volatility.
and frequently swap between stocks and futures to capture profits.abrupt swings in the stock market are not likely to disappear anytime soon.
Consequently, abrupt swings in the stock market are not likely to disappear anytime soon.without Wall Street firms trading for their own accounts, the stock-index arbitrage trading opportunities for the big funds may be all the more abundant.
Stock-index funds have grown in popularity over the past decade.pension funds and other institutional investors have sought a low-cost way to match the performance of the stock market as a whole.
Stock-index funds have grown in popularity over the past decade.pension funds and other institutional investors have sought a low-cost way to match the performance of the stock market as a whole.
Some stock-index funds are huge.Wells Fargo Investment Advisers managed $25 billion in stock investments tracking the S&P 500 at the end of June, according to Standard & Poor's Corp.
Stock-index funds frequently use the futures markets as a hedging tool.that is a far less aggressive strategy than stock-index arbitrage, in which traders buy and sell big blocks of stocks with offsetting trades in stock-index futures to profit from price differences.
The 190-point plunge in the stock market Oct. 13 has heightened concerns about volatility.while signs of an economic slowdown, softer corporate earnings and troubles with takeover financing all have contributed to the stock market's recent weakness, many investors rushed to blame program trading for aggravating market swings.
And many investors rushed to blame program trading for aggravating market swings.signs of an economic slowdown, softer corporate earnings and troubles with takeover financing all have contributed to the stock market's recent weakness.
And many investors rushed to blame program trading for aggravating market swings.signs of an economic slowdown, softer corporate earnings and troubles with takeover financing all have contributed to the stock market's recent weakness.
it would no longer trade with firms committed to stock-index arbitrage, including the three that later suspended stock-index arbitrage trading on Friday.Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co. and Founders Asset Management Inc. cut off brokerage firms that engage in program trading.
Morgan Stanley's trading halt for its own account is likely to shake up firms such as Kidder, Peabody & Co. that still do such trades for their own account.it is still doing stock-index arbitrage trades for customers.
Morgan Stanley's trading halt for its own account.the firm is putting up money to form a group of regulators, investors and investment banks to find out if stock-index arbitrage artificially induces stock-market volatility.
Merrill Lynch & Co. recommended program-trading reforms late Friday, including higher margins on stock-index futures and greater regulatory coordination.Mr. Cayne of Bear Stearns said his firm is working with regulators to balance margin requirements to "enhance stabilization.
Merrill Lynch & Co. recommended program-trading reforms late Friday, including higher margins on stock-index futures and greater regulatory coordination.Mr. Cayne of Bear Stearns said his firm is working with regulators to balance margin requirements to "enhance stabilization.
an investor must put up.buying a security.
Stock-index arbitrage attempts to reestablish the link between the stock and futures markets.it sells the more "expensive" market and buys the "cheaper" one.
Stock-index arbitrage, because it sells the more "expensive" market and buys the "cheaper" one, attempts to reestablish the link between the stock and futures markets.the adjustments are often abrupt.
Stock-index arbitrage, because it sells the more "expensive" market and buys the "cheaper" one, attempts to reestablish the link between the stock and futures markets, and the adjustments are often abrupt.unequal trading rules allow the futures market to trade differently from stocks, which invites frequent bouts of stock-index arbitrage in the first place.
Put these together.you get programs about rape.
this episode does a decent job of tracing the social repercussions of the crime.the show has acquired a sense of place by being filmed on location in Georgia.
Obviously, it's harder to establish a sense of place in a one-shot TV movie.tonight's offering, "Settle the Score" (9-11 p.m. EST, on NBC), doesn't even try.
This tale of a Chicago policewoman returning home to find the man who raped her 20 years earlier is supposed to be set in the Ozarks.it's more like an illustration of what Ben Stein describes in his study of social attitudes in the TV industry.
that it was partly in response to such attitudes that he is now "a dweller on one of the two islands off the coast of America.is exile in Hollywood enough.
The sole sympathetic character is the prodigal daughter Kate (Jaclyn Smith).she is tolerable only by virtue of having nothing in common with her kinfolk, a truly benighted pack of Southern Protestants whose grim existence consists mostly of growing peaches and repressing sex.
that someone tied her hands behind her back, thrust her head into a gunny sack, brutally raped and beat her, and then left her to die in a cold-storage room.she was a teen-ager.
that someone tied her hands behind her back, thrust her head into a gunny sack, brutally raped and beat her.and left her to die in a cold-storage room.
who pauses at the word "sin" and glares at the daughter he hasn't seen for two decades.saying grace at the supper table.
who pauses at the word "sin" and glares at the daughter he hasn't seen for two decades.he knows in his heart that she enjoyed what happened in the cold-storage room, and has been indulging the same taste ever since in the fleshpots of Chicago.
People like Pa do exist, of course.in Mr. Sohmer's Ozarks, he is but the tip of the patriarchal iceberg.
Add the fact that any one of them, including Pa, could be her attacker.you have a setting that doesn't resemble small-town America, or even Hollywood's nightmare of small-town America, so much as a paranoid feminist dystopia like Margaret Atwood's "The Handmaid's Tale," itself soon to be (you guessed it) a Hollywood movie.
Josh makes clumsy passes at Kate.she's seething with anger and fear.
Josh makes clumsy passes at Kate when she's seething with anger and fear.we know from the outset that he's not a member of the evil patriarchy.
you can't guess why he's so sweet to his sister when everybody else hates her.As for Lincoln I'm not going to tell you.
why he's so sweet to his sister.everybody else hates her.
why he's so sweet to his sister.everybody else hates her.
to leave his wife at home tending to her bruises and cigarette burns.he bullies Kate into a dance that consists of drooling on her while trying to break her ribs.
of drooling on her.trying to break her ribs.
As for the women, they're pathetic.even these insulting caricatures are not as bad as the moral hypocrisy at the heart of "Settle the Score.
In the aforementioned episode of "In the Heat of the Night," we saw Althea being attacked.we weren't invited to enjoy the spectacle.
In the aforementioned episode of "In the Heat of the Night," we saw Althea being attacked, but we weren't invited to enjoy the spectacle.In Mr. Sohmer's film we are urged to share the perverse excitement of the rapist creeping up on his victim, as the camera ogles Kate in various stages of undress and lingers on the sight of her trussed-up body during frequent flashbacks to the rape.
In Mr. Sohmer's film, by contrast, we are urged to share the perverse excitement of the rapist creeping up on his victim.the camera ogles Kate in various stages of undress and lingers on the sight of her trussed-up body during frequent flashbacks to the rape.
in which she and Josh are stranded in the city.after insisting on separate motel rooms, she knocks on his door to pour out her feelings about the rape -- wearing nothing but a mini-slip and a push-up bra.
and she knocks on his door to pour out her feelings about the rape -- wearing nothing but a mini-slip and a push-up bra.insisting on separate motel rooms.
Crossland Savings Bank's stock plummeted.management recommended a suspension of dividend payments on both its common and preferred stock.
Crossland Savings Bank's stock plummeted.management recommended a suspension of dividend payments on both its common and preferred stock.
after management recommended a suspension of dividend payments on both its common and preferred stock.Crossland may not meet the new government capital criteria effective Dec. 7.
the savings bank may not qualify for the capital requirements.under the proposed guidelines, its $380 million of preferred stock doesn't meet the "core capital" criteria outlined under the new Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989.
Crossland Savings Bank's stock plummeted after management recommended a suspension of dividend payments on both its common and preferred stock because Crossland may not meet the new government capital criteria effective Dec. 7..In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange Friday, Crossland closed at $5.25, down $1.875, a 26% decline.Crossland reported a third-quarter loss of $175.5 million, or $13.44 a share.
to revise its business objectives.and to write down the asset value of some previous acquisitions.
Net interest income for the third quarter declined to $35.6 million from $70.1 million a year ago.non-interest income rose to $23.5 million from $22 million.
Standard & Poor's Corp. lowered the rating on Crossland's preferred stock to double-C from single-B-minus and placed it on CreditWatch for possible further downgrade.It placed on CreditWatch for possible downgrade other securities, including the double-B-minus/B rating of Crossland's certificates of deposit and the single-B rating of its senior subordinated capital notes.
Open it.two soulful eyes on a boy's brown face peer out from the page, pleadingly.
No.he's endangered all the same.
ABC hasn't had much luck with shows featuring blacks in recent years.the producers of one new arrival are a bit desperate.
ABC hasn't had much luck with shows featuring blacks in recent years.the producers of one new arrival are a bit desperate.
ABC hasn't had much luck with shows featuring blacks in recent years, and the producers of one new arrival are a bit desperate.producers Alyce and Topper Carew spun their Rolodexes and gathered names of black opinion makers to mount a direct-mail campaign.
Using direct mail for a TV show is like fishing for whale with a breaded hook..It just isn't done.employing this kind of gut-wrenching plea to black consciousness makes it even more unusual.
Using direct mail for a TV show is like fishing for whale with a breaded hook..It just isn't done..But employing this kind of gut-wrenching plea to black consciousness makes it even more unusual.Mr. Carew thinks he can reach a good chunk of the three million-plus black homes he needs by mailing to the almost 10,000 blacks who form what he calls "the grapevine.
The grapevine isn't organized.it exists.
I want white America to talk about it, too.I'm convinced that the grapevine is what's happening.
it is aware of the producers' action.the mailing was sent without the network's blessing.
but the mailing was sent without the network's blessing.The letter takes a jab at ABC for being a laggard in black programming.
it is aware of the producers' action, but the mailing was sent without the network's blessing.the grapevine idea is threatening to turn into a weed: The tactic apparently has inspired sample viewings, but accolades are slow in coming.
it is aware of the producers' action, but the mailing was sent without the network's blessing.the grapevine idea is threatening to turn into a weed: The tactic apparently has inspired sample viewings, but accolades are slow in coming.
Meanwhile the grapevine idea is threatening to turn into a weed.the Sunday evening show struggles to stay afloat against the tough competition of "Murder, She Wrote.
The tactic apparently has inspired sample viewings.accolades are slow in coming.
Some shows just don't impress.this is one of them.
it helps to have input and access to transportation companies.the cost of transporting gas is so important to producers' ability to sell it.
Since its founding in 1818, Brooks Brothers, the standard-bearer of the Ivy League look, has eschewed flashy sales promotions and fashion trends -- the rules that most retailers live by.with sales growth sluggish and other men's stores putting on the heat, the venerable retailer can no longer afford such a smug attitude.
But with sales growth sluggish and other men's stores putting on the heat, the venerable retailer can no longer afford such a smug attitude.two weeks ago, thousands of Brooks Brothers charge customers -- customers conditioned to wait for twice-yearly clearance sales -- got a surprise: an invitation to come in and buy any one item for 25% off.
One ad shows a bright red jacket paired with a black leather skirt.the ad copy is cheeky: "How can you be a Wall Street hot shot without at least one Brooks Brothers suit in your portfolio.
Brooks Brothers' annual operating profit was about $41.8 million on sales of $290.1 million.acquired in May 1988 by British retailer Marks & Spencer PLC.
it will be playing catch up.Brooks Brothers jumps into the fashion fray.
Many clothiers, especially Ralph Lauren, have cashed in on the recent popularity of updated Ivy League and English styles..In keeping with men's broader fashion scope today, businessmen are dabbling in English and Italian suits that are conservative but not stodgy.The rigid Ivy League customer, Brooks Brothers' bread and butter is becoming extinct.
Many clothiers, especially Ralph Lauren, have cashed in on the recent popularity of updated Ivy League and English styles..In keeping with men's broader fashion scope today, businessmen are dabbling in English and Italian suits that are conservative but not stodgy.The rigid Ivy League customer, Brooks Brothers' bread and butter is becoming extinct.
Many clothiers, especially Ralph Lauren, have cashed in on the recent popularity of updated Ivy League and English styles..In keeping with men's broader fashion scope today, businessmen are dabbling in English and Italian suits that are conservative but not stodgy..The rigid Ivy League customer, Brooks Brothers' bread and butter, meanwhile is becoming extinct.Brooks Brothers has lost customers to stores that offer more variety such as Paul Stuart, Barneys New York and Louis, Boston.
the shop risks alienating its old-line customers.it promotes fashion too much.
By making a break from tradition, Brooks Brothers is seeking a delicate balance..If it promotes fashion too much, the shop risks alienating its old-line customers; by emphasizing "value," it risks watering down its high-minded mystique.Fashion industry consultants question whether the company can make significant strides in its women's business, given that its customer base is less established and that conservative business dress for women is on the decline.
given that its customer base is less established.that conservative business dress for women is on the decline.
Marks & Spencer plans to open roughly 18 more U.S. stores in the next five years.Marks & Spencer is considering opening stores across Europe sometime in the future.
by broadening its merchandise assortment.keeping its "traditional emphasis.
by broadening its merchandise assortment.keeping its "traditional emphasis.
that Brooks Brothers' focus is to boost sales by broadening its merchandise assortment while keeping its "traditional emphasis.The British parent is streamlining.
Brooks Brothers recently shut one of its two shirt plants in Paterson, N.J., and has closed boys' departments in all but 20 stores.Brooks Brothers is remodeling its stores.
More shirts and sweaters will be laid out on tables, instead of sitting behind glass cases.customers can "walk up and touch them.
Brooks Brothers is chasing more of that business.the biggest growth in menswear is in casual sportswear.
that we are very conservative.we only sell one type of suit.
The perception out there is that we are very conservative and we only sell one type of suit referring to Brooks Brothers' signature three-button "sack suit," with a center-vented jacket and boxy fit.it now offers more two-button versions and suits with a tapered fit.
But it now offers more two-button versions and suits with a tapered fit.It plans to add suits cut for athletic men with broader upper bodies.
Ferro Corp. said it will buy back as many as one million common shares.Ferro said it would cancel the unused portion of a 1987 buy-back plan for administrative reasons.
Arthur Price abruptly quit as president and chief executive officer of MTM Entertainment Inc., a Los Angeles production company that has fallen on hard times.Mr. Price, 61 years old, stepped down from the board of TVS Entertainment PLC, the British TV company that last year bought MTM, producer of such TV programs as "Hill Street Blues" and "The Mary Tyler Moore Show.
that he will "assume overall responsibility" for MTM's operations.a successor is named.
Mr. Gatward declined to comment.Mr. Price couldn't be reached on Friday.
leaving MTM was a very difficult decision.that "it is now time for a change.
The $320 million purchase of MTM represented an audacious international move for TVS.TVS stunned industry analysts last month by disclosing that it expected MTM to post an operating loss for this year.
But TVS stunned industry analysts last month by disclosing that it expected MTM to post an operating loss for this year.In that announcement, TVS said it was trimming production finance and hiring a new U.S. sales manager.
Mr. Price co-founded MTM in 1969 with U.S. actress Mary Tyler Moore and Grant Tinker, her then-husband.Mr. Tinker left to become chairman of National Broadcasting Co.
Institut Merieux S.A. said it would extend its bid, due to expire last Thursday, to Nov. 6.Merieux said it would ensure its bid remained open pending a final decision by Canadian regulators on whether to approve the takeover.
the offer will be approved.it submits details of its proposed investments to federal regulators.
the offer will be approved.it submits details of its proposed investments to federal regulators.
Two rival bidders for Connaught BioSciences extended their offers to acquire the Toronto-based vaccine manufacturer Friday.the Ontario Supreme Court said it will postpone indefinitely a ruling on the lawsuit launched by the University of Toronto against Connaught in connection with the Merieux bid.
General Motors Corp. 's GMC Truck division put a $750 cash incentive on its 1990 full-sized Jimmy and Suburban trucks.The program offers low-rate financing in lieu of the cash rebate.
Judge Harold C. Abramson raised the possibility.talks to end a feud between two major creditors failed and all three reorganization plans in the case ran into roadblocks.
after talks to end a feud between two major creditors failed.all three reorganization plans in the case ran into roadblocks.
what remains of the oil tycoon's once-vast estate would be sold off quickly with most of the proceeds going to the Internal Revenue Service.the case is converted to Chapter 7.
Judge Abramson told a courtroom filled with nearly two dozen attorneys that he was concerned about the toll mounting legal bills will take on Mr. Hunt's shrinking estate and about the fact that, following voting by creditors, none of the reorganization plans appeared to be viable in their present form.admitting such a move would be "devastating" to most creditors.
a company continues to operate under protection from creditors' lawsuits.it works out a plan to pay its debts.
he would move quickly.hearing testimony later this week in the bitter dispute between Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. and Minpeco S.A., a minerals concern owned by the Peruvian governmemt.
Minpeco has agreed to settle for an allowed claim of as much as $65.7 million.claiming that penalties, legal fees and interest have driven the value of its claim to more than $250 million.
While claiming that penalties, legal fees and interest have driven the value of its claim to more than $250 million, Minpeco has agreed to settle for an allowed claim of as much as $65.7 million.even that is disputed by Manufacturers Hanover which, in alliance with the IRS, contends that Minpeco has already collected more than its actual damages from other defendants in the silver-conspiracy case.
Despite long private sessions in both New York and Dallas, the two sides ended the week "6,000 miles and many dollars apart," according to attorney Hugh Ray, who represents Manufacturers Hanover.inside the courtroom, the judge said he would fine attorneys for the two creditors $50 every time they referred to each other with terms such as "liar" or "slime.
Despite long private sessions in both New York and Dallas, the two sides ended the week "6,000 miles and many dollars apart," according to attorney Hugh Ray, who represents Manufacturers Hanover.inside the courtroom, the judge said he would fine attorneys for the two creditors $50 every time they referred to each other with terms such as "liar" or "slime.
A reorganization plan proposed jointly by the IRS and Manufacturers Hanover was stalled by a negative vote from Minpeco..The mineral concern's own reorganization plan met a similar fate after opposition from the IRS and Manufacturers Hanover.Neither plan is dead.
Neither plan is dead, however.the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them after ruling on the Minpeco-Manufacturers Hanover dispute.
and the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them.ruling on the Minpeco-Manufacturers Hanover dispute.
Neither plan is dead, however, and the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them after ruling on the Minpeco-Manufacturers Hanover dispute.settlement negotiations continue between Mr. Hunt and the IRS.
Neither plan is dead, however, and the judge could force creditors to accept some version of them after ruling on the Minpeco-Manufacturers Hanover dispute.settlement negotiations continue between Mr. Hunt and the IRS.
on how much Herbert Hunt will continue to owe the government.his assets are sold.
Terms haven't been finalized.the transaction is expected to close by year end.
Automatic Data will issue about 3.6 million shares.all the debt is converted to common.
Automatic Data is redeeming the bonds.the after-tax cost of the interest on the bonds is higher than the dividend yield on the common.
Dow Jones & Co. extended its tender offer of $18 a share, or about $576 million, for the 33% of Telerate Inc. that it doesn't already own until 5 p.m. EST, Nov. 6.The offer had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday.
that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.Dow Jones launched the offer on Sept. 26.
The supplement contains various information that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission since Dow Jones launched the offer on Sept. 26.it doesn't change the terms and conditions of the offer except to extend its expiration date.
but it doesn't change the terms and conditions of the offer.to extend its expiration date.
that Telerate's management expects the company's revenue to increase by 20% annually.Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate's performance on a 12% revenue growth forecast.
Telerate shares fell 50 cents on Friday to close at $20 each in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.Dow Jones shares fell 50 cents to close at $36.125 in Big Board composite trading.
Late last week, representatives of Dow Jones and Telerate began negotiations about the terms of the offer.those talks didn't result in any changes in the offer.
In addition to being broadcast on cable television.the movie is being distributed on videocassettes.
Concord New Horizons Corp., creators of a 1988 movie called Nam Angels, used the gang's name and trademarks without authorization, the not-for-profit corporation says in a complaint filed in federal court.named in the suit is Media Home Entertainment Inc. of Culver City, Calif., its parent, Heron Communications Inc., and Broadstar Television of Los Angeles, holders of the copyright on the movie.
the Angels are angry with their depiction in the movie.being upset with the film's use of the Hells Angels name and logos.
Nam Angels shows Angels fighting with each other.and depicts them as showing no remorse when a member is killed.
as showing no remorse.a member is killed.
Douglas H. Miller, self-employed in the oil and gas securities business, was named chairman of this oil and gas exploration company.Mr. Miller was named chief executive officer.
Lawrence M. Gressette Jr., president, was elected to the additional posts of chairman and chief executive officer of this utility holding company, effective Feb. 1, 1990.who was elected chairman and chief executive of all Scana subsidiaries.
six people were dead (three from heart attacks), and everyone wondered what in the world they were shooting at.the smoke cleared.
When the smoke cleared, six people were dead (three from heart attacks).everyone wondered what in the world they were shooting at.
Well, thousands of Californians on the scene insisted the ammo had been uselessly aimed at a large, hardy UFO.you will just have to make your own decision about such sightings.
There have been a ton of them.greater beings than the editors of the National Enquirer have shown interest.
I'll make every piece of information this country has about UFO sightings available to the public, and the scientists.I become president.
I am convinced that UFOs exist.I have seen one.
Jimmy Carter went further in a 1976 campaign promise: "If I become president, I'll make every piece of information this country has about UFO sightings available to the public, and the scientists..I am convinced that UFOs exist because I have seen one. . ..you know about campaign promises.
It still doesn't look like governments are coughing up everything they know.despite their efforts to convince the world that we are indeed alone, the visitors do seem to keep coming and, like the recent sightings, there's often a detail or two that suggests they may actually be a little on the dumb side.
Still, despite their efforts to convince the world that we are indeed alone, the visitors do seem to keep coming.like the recent sightings, there's often a detail or two that suggests they may actually be a little on the dumb side.
that suggests they may actually be a little on the dumb side.witnesses in Voronezh say the pinheaded behemoths and their robot friend, after strolling around the city park, left behind some rocks.
the pinheaded behemoths and their robot friend left behind some rocks.strolling around the city park.
In a 1961 incident, a Soviet mail plane disappeared off the radar screen.radioing its position to ground control in Sverdlovsk.
Speculation as to the nature of aliens will no doubt continue.we wake up one morning to find they've taken over "The Today Show," the way they overwhelm an entire town in Jack Finney's "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" (Fireside/Simon & Schuster, 216 pages, $8.95).
The apparent crash became top secret.the alien creatures went away upset with the rude ways of human beings.
Trustcorp Inc. will become Society Bank & Trust.its merger is completed with Society Corp. of Cleveland.
Akzo NV fell out of bed.the economy stumbled in the mid-1970s.
Now Akzo says it is in far better shape to cope.a new downturn in the chemical industry looms.
The fibers business now accounts for only 20% of Akzo's sales.Akzo hasn't yet found a way to achieve another goal: a large presence in the U.S. market for prescription drugs.
prices for U.S. pharmaceutical companies remain too high, making it unlikely that Akzo will pursue any major acquisitions in that area.Akzo is considering "alliances" with American drug companies, although he wouldn't elaborate.
But he said Akzo is considering "alliances" with American drug companies.he wouldn't elaborate.
A bigger test will come next year.bulk chemical prices slump in Europe.
that Akzo is less exposed than many of its rivals to the most volatile chemical products.Akzo has only minor petrochemical operations, is small in plastics and doesn't make fertilizers.
that Akzo is less exposed than many of its rivals to the most volatile chemical products.while Akzo profited less than many rivals from the boom of recent years in petrochemicals and plastics, it has less to fear from the current slump.
Thus it has less to fear from the current slump.Akzo profited less than many rivals from the boom of recent years in petrochemicals and plastics.
that Akzo is less exposed than many of its rivals to the most volatile chemical products.The company is exposed to bulk chemicals.
they are generally stable in Europe.bulk-chemical prices have begun falling in the U.S.
A decline may come in the first half of 1990.the market doesn't appear on the verge of a severe downturn.
In a less glamorous field, Akzo is the world's biggest producer of industrial salt, used as a raw material for the chemical industry as well as for such tasks as melting ice.Akzo makes products derived from salt, such as chlorine and caustic soda.
In the fibers division, profit remains weak, largely because of persistent overcapacity.Akzo is still slimming down.
Akzo has high hopes for some emerging fiber businesses, such carbon fibers and aramid, extremely strong fibers used to reinforce tires and metals and to make such products as bullet-proof vests.the polyester and rayon markets remain mostly bleak.
Sales growth of 10% a year seems possible.Akzo expects its Twaron business to become profitable in 1990.
Akzo has high hopes for some emerging fiber businesses, such carbon fibers and aramid, extremely strong fibers used to reinforce tires and metals and to make such products as bullet-proof vests.Akzo has spent heavily on acquisitions in paints, auto finishes and industrial coatings.
Akzo also has spent heavily on acquisitions in paints, auto finishes and industrial coatings.In August it completed the $110 million acquisition of Reliance Universal Inc., a U.S. maker of industrial coatings for wood, metals and plastics, from Tyler Corp.
Akzo is likely to see strong profit growth from coatings.it realizes cost savings and other benefits from its greater scale.
Akzo is the leading seller of birth-control pills in Europe but is still seeking regulatory approvals to enter that market in the U.S. and Japan.Akzo has small operations in diagnostic tests, generic drugs and veterinary products.
as in summarily sacking exchange controls.and slashing the top rate of income taxation to 40%.
We're sorry to see Nigel Lawson's departure from the British government.in the end his resignation as Chancellor of the Exchequer may be a good thing.
We're sorry to see Nigel Lawson's departure from the British government.But his resignation as Chancellor of the Exchequer may be a good thing.
But in the end his resignation as Chancellor of the Exchequer may be a good thing.it works as he no doubt intends -- by forcing Prime Minister Thatcher and her counterparts elsewhere to confront the genuine intellectual issues involved.
But in the end his resignation as Chancellor of the Exchequer may be a good thing.it works as he no doubt intends -- by forcing Prime Minister Thatcher and her counterparts elsewhere to confront the genuine intellectual issues involved.
Nigel Lawson's departure from the British government.who resigned as personal adviser to Mrs. Thatcher.
There are the supply-side globalists, who seek to spread the advantages of a common currency through fixed exchange rates.there are the twin-deficit Keynesians, who predict/advocate devaluations to balance trade flows.
He not only slashed marginal tax rates, initially sparking fresh growth in Britain.he wanted to regulate monetary policy by targeting exchange rates, indeed joining the European Monetary System.
Sir Alan is a dyed-in-the-wool monetarist, inclined to defend floating rates to the death.no doubt agreeing with Mr. Lawson on everything else.
By accounting definitions, this had to produce a sudden trade deficit.As in the U.S., it produced a sudden burst in the demand for sterling, that is a surge in the sterling monetary aggregates, M-Whatever.
Faced with a similar situation, Paul Volcker let the dollar soar.monetary aggregates also grew so rapidly monetarists issued egg-on-the-face warnings of inflation.
Faced with a similar situation, Paul Volcker let the dollar soar.though monetary aggregates grew so rapidly monetarists issued egg-on-the-face warnings of inflation.
Faced with a similar situation, Paul Volcker let the dollar soar.this devastated the U.S. manufacturing sector.
Mr. Lawson chose to "shadow" the deutsche mark.not allowed to join the EMS.
He reaped inflation along with rapid growth, no doubt validating Sir Alan's predictions in the Prime Minister's mind.more recently, the pound has been falling with high inflation, which has also seemed almost impervious to the high interest rates Mr. Lawson deployed to stop it.
But more recently, the pound has been falling with high inflation.which has seemed almost impervious to the high interest rates Mr. Lawson deployed to stop it.
But more recently, the pound has been falling with high inflation, which has also seemed almost impervious to the high interest rates Mr. Lawson deployed to stop it.the British experience presents a genuine puzzle that reaches far beyond the shores of Albion.
We had been soliciting opinions on it.Mr. Lawson's resignation.
To begin with, we should note that in contrast to the U.S. deficit, Britain has been running largish budget surpluses.We should add Mr. Lawson's own explanation, as we understand it.
We should also add Mr. Lawson's own explanation, as we understand it.We should concede that in the British experience the monetarist cause regains some of the credibility it lost in the U.S. experience.
Perhaps the fiscal shock of tax cuts is after all best absorbed by floating rates.of course in the event Mr. Lawson resigned over whether to support a weak pound, not restrain a strong one.
that Mr. Roberts not only chides the Chancellor for being too easy because of a desire to constrain sterling.but led the chorus saying that Mr. Volcker was too tight when he let the dollar rise.
that Mr. Volcker was too tight.he let the dollar rise.
The globalists tend to think Mr. Lawson ran onto technical reefs.In fixing rates the choice of initial parities is crucial and perhaps he picked the wrong pound-DM rate.
In fixing rates the choice of initial parities is crucial, for example.perhaps he picked the wrong pound-DM rate.
Perhaps the shock would have been less.they'd fixed to another low-tax, deregulated, supply-side economy.
that the retirement of gilts for cash is equivalent to an expansionary open-market operation.it is the definition of an open market operation to expand the money supply.
Alan Reynolds of Polyconomics adds his suspicion that the unrecognized inflationary culprit is the budget surplus.Mr. Reynolds notes that since British banks have no reserve requirements, high interest rates are less likely to curb inflation than to cause recession.
that high interest rates are less likely to curb inflation than to cause recession.British banks have no reserve requirements.
to decide between the Chancellor and her adviser.neither policy was followed.
In the end, neither policy was followed.instead of learning anything we are left with a mystery.
In the end, neither policy was followed, and instead of learning anything we are left with a mystery.shadowing" a currency is anything but fixing; it is an open announcement that the exchange rate target has no credibility.
All the more so.strong voices are heard opposing the policy.
In particular, "shadowing" a currency is anything but fixing; it is an open announcement that the exchange rate target has no credibility..All the more so when strong voices are heard opposing the policy..Better to have a true monetarist policy, just for the experience.Mr. Lawson had to resign.
So Mr. Lawson had to resign.his move was sparked by remarks in excerpts from Sir Alan's autobiography in The American Economist, a 10,000-circulation academic journal.
In the end his move was sparked by remarks in excerpts from Sir Alan's autobiography in The American Economist, a 10,000-circulation academic journal.it was the underlying situation that became intolerable.
Ogilvy under the fastidious Mr. Roman gained a reputation as occasionally being high-handed in its treatment of clients, of preaching what strategy a client should -- indeed, must -- follow.some of its top client-service executives, including Mr. Phillips, were promoted to the point they were saddled with administrative duties, with little time to see clients.
And some of its top client-service executives, including Mr. Phillips, were promoted to the point they were saddled with administrative duties, with little time to see clients.Mr. Phillips recently freed himself up to spend more time with clients by delegating much of his administrative work to a deputy.
But Mr. Phillips recently freed himself up to spend more time with clients by delegating much of his administrative work to a deputy.He plans to get to know clients that Mr. Roman was closer to, such as Lever Brothers, American Express and Seagram.
he hopes to improve client service.Mr. Phillips hopes to finally implement a reorganization announced earlier this year but put on hold by the WPP takeover.
Under his watch, office politicking was often rampant in the agency's New York operation.the office there has had a dismal new-business record for more than a year.
Under his watch, office politicking was often rampant in the agency's New York operation and the office there has had a dismal new-business record for more than a year.while last week the agency hired a top Chiat/Day/Mojo executive, Bill Hamilton, to try to bolster its work, "Graham has to get the revenue of that New York office moving.
And Graham has to get the revenue of that New York office moving.last week the agency hired a top Chiat/Day/Mojo executive, Bill Hamilton, to try to bolster its work.
The one thing Mr. Phillips clearly does have going for him is continuity.it isn't certain if that will be enough.
The last thing they need is enormous disruption at the top.Graham is obviously a long-term member of the Ogilvy Mafia, as we call it.
Mr. Phillips and Mr. Roman are indeed quite similar in substance.not in style.
Mr. Phillips and Mr. Roman are indeed quite similar in substance.not in style.
Mr. Phillips would rather delegate.Mr. Roman is a workaholic detailsman.
Mr. Phillips would rather delegate, leaving him time for his interests outside the office.Mr. Roman seems rarely to cut loose at all.
Mr. Roman, by contrast, seems rarely to cut loose at all.he did appear at Ogilvy's Halloween party Friday decked out in duck feet and a duck hat, costumed as a "lame duck.
the company's expected margin improvement will be all but inevitable.margins will be helped, too, by some other cost-saving steps.
But margins will be helped, too, by some other cost-saving steps.The fact that the agency will now be part of a U.K. company, under British accounting rules, will make the profit picture look better.
Mr. Klein will work with Mr. Kroll on some of the agency's joint venture activities and acquisitions.the case is pending.
the company still makes financial filings because of its publicly traded debt.management led a leveraged buy-out of R.H. Macy in July 1986.
we will be concentrating on buying and selling merchandise our customers need and want.our competitors are concerned with their financial viability and possible ownership changes.
we will be concentrating on buying and selling merchandise our customers need and want.our competitors are concerned with their financial viability and possible ownership changes.
In a letter to investors, Chairman Edward S. Finkelstein wrote that he expects the company to "benefit from some of the disruption faced by our competitors.In his letter, Mr. Finkelstein referred to the recent San Francisco earthquake.
The volume and profit impact on our fiscal first quarter will not be positive.looking at the whole fiscal year, we don't see the effect as material.
Roughly $2 billion of that debt has already been repaid from previous asset sales.RJR expects to use another $2 billion from the pending, two-part sale of most of its Del Monte unit.
and RJR expects to use another $2 billion from the pending, two-part sale of most of its Del Monte unit.That sale could still fall through if financing problems develop.
That sale, however, could still fall through.financing problems develop.
That sale, however, could still fall through if financing problems develop.it remains crucial for RJR to obtain top dollar for its smaller assets like the candy brands.
it has agreed to sell nearly $5 billion of RJR assets.KKR bought RJR in February for $25 billion of debt.
Baby Ruth and Butterfinger are both among the top-selling 15 chocolate bars in the U.S.RJR's overall share of the roughly $5.1 billion market is less than 5%.
Last year catastrophe losses totaled $5 million.net was $235.5 million, or $2.07 a share.
The insurer has started processing claims from the Northern California earthquake nearly two weeks ago.because these claims are more difficult to evaluate and have been coming in more slowly, the company has no estimate of the impact of the earthquake on fourth-quarter results.
But the company has no estimate of the impact of the earthquake on fourth-quarter results.these claims are more difficult to evaluate and have been coming in more slowly.
Profit for its commercial insurance division fell 30% to $59 million.Aetna's employee benefits division posted a 34% profit gain to $106 million.
Here was the state security appartus poised to pounce on any words or acts of provocation, let alone revolution.the words that boomed over the loudspeakers bore messages of peace, unity, negotiation and discipline.
We stand for peace today.we will stand for peace tomorrow.
who, along with five of his colleagues, served 26 years in prison.being released two weeks ago.
The government of President F.W. de Klerk is using this situation to improve its international image and head off further economic sanctions.the many organizations inside the country that back the ANC are taking the opportunity to regain their strength and mobilize their supporters even though the state of emergency, which has severely curtailed black opposition, remains in force.
The government of President F.W. de Klerk is using this situation to improve its international image and head off further economic sanctions.the many organizations inside the country that back the ANC are taking the opportunity to regain their strength and mobilize their supporters even though the state of emergency, which has severely curtailed black opposition, remains in force.
Meanwhile, the many organizations inside the country that back the ANC are taking the opportunity to regain their strength and mobilize their supporters.the state of emergency, which has severely curtailed black opposition, remains in force.
the country was at a crossroads.that Mr. de Klerk "may yet earn a place among the peacemakers of our country" if he chooses a "path of genuine political settlement.
and that Mr. de Klerk "may yet earn a place among the peacemakers of our country.he chooses a "path of genuine political settlement.
The government and the ANC, the bitterest of enemies, are engaged in an elaborate mating dance designed to entice each other to the negotiating table.this doesn't mean that either the government or the ANC is changing stripes -- or that either has moved significantly closer to the other.
that either the government or the ANC is changing stripes.that either has moved significantly closer to the other.
The government may ease repression in some areas.it still keeps a tight grip in others.
The government may ease repression in some areas, but it still keeps a tight grip in others.it releases Mr. Sisulu without conditions, yet his son, Zwelakhe, a newspaper editor, is restricted to his home much of the day and isn't allowed to work as a journalist.
For instance, it releases Mr. Sisulu without conditions.his son, Zwelakhe, a newspaper editor, is restricted to his home much of the day and isn't allowed to work as a journalist.
both the government, which approved the rally, and the organizers, who orchestrated it, denied it was an ANC rally.the ANC remains banned.
They both called it a "welcome home" gathering.an ANC rally by any other name is still an ANC rally.
Mr. Sisulu repeated the ANC's demands on the government to create a climate for negotiations.a police helicopter circled overhead.
Release all political prisoners unconditionally; lift all bans and restrictions on individuals and organizations; remove all troops from the black townships; end the state of emergency.cease all political trials and political executions.
the ANC would be prepared to discuss suspending its guerrilla activities.these conditions are met.
it seemed like the company had pulled the plug on its century-old power generation business.Westinghouse Electric Corp. shuttered its massive steam turbine plant in Lester, Pa., three years ago.
When Westinghouse Electric Corp. shuttered its massive steam turbine plant in Lester, Pa., three years ago, it seemed like the company had pulled the plug on its century-old power generation business.now Westinghouse is enjoying a resurgence in demand for both steam and combustion turbines and may even join the growing legion of independent electric producers.
When Westinghouse Electric Corp. shuttered its massive steam turbine plant in Lester, Pa., three years ago, it seemed like the company had pulled the plug on its century-old power generation business.now Westinghouse is enjoying a resurgence in demand for both steam and combustion turbines and may even join the growing legion of independent electric producers.
But now Westinghouse is enjoying a resurgence in demand for both steam and combustion turbines and may even join the growing legion of independent electric producers.with its new venture with Japan's Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., announced last week, it is poised to penetrate growing markets overseas.
Most are from independent producers instead of regulated utilities.Westinghouse believes it will ride a wave of demand stretching over the next six years.
But now Westinghouse is enjoying a resurgence in demand for both steam and combustion turbines and may even join the growing legion of independent electric producers.Westinghouse's own role as a supplier is changing.
In the past, the company usually took token equity positions in power plants it supplied as a "kicker" to close deals.last June's annnouncement that Westinghouse would put up all of the $70 million to build a new 55-megawatt plant could herald a new age.
We haven't decided on a strategy yet.we could become an independent producer depending on whether we're the developer or just the supplier.
Under the agreement, Westinghouse will be able to purchase smaller combustion turbines from its Japanese partner, and package and sell them with its own generators and other equipment.Westinghouse jointly will bid on projects with Misubishi, giving it an edge in developing Asian markets.
Under the agreement, Westinghouse will be able to purchase smaller combustion turbines from its Japanese partner, and package and sell them with its own generators and other equipment..Westinghouse also jointly will bid on projects with Misubishi, giving it an edge in developing Asian markets.the two companies will develop new steam turbine technology, such as the plants ordered by Florida Power, and even utilize each other's plants at times to take advantage of currency fluctuations.
we can also work jointly on some projects, and we'll gain a lot of sourcing flexibility.we'll still compete against Mitsubishi.
Even though we'll still compete against Mitsubishi.we can work jointly on some projects, and we'll gain a lot of sourcing flexibility.
we can also work jointly on some projects.we'll gain a lot of sourcing flexibility.
Westinghouse carefully crafted the agreement.the Justice Department earlier this year successfully challenged a proposed steam turbine joint venture with Asea Brown Boveri.
which, unlike utilities, aren't regulated.and don't need government approval to construct new plants.
about half of its new orders for turbines to come from independent producers for at least the next six years.that demand from independent producers could evaporate if prices for fuel such as natural gas or oil rise sharply or if utilities, which have been pressured by regulators to keep down rates, are suddenly freed to add significant generating capacity.
that demand from independent producers could evaporate.prices for fuel such as natural gas or oil rise sharply.
if prices for fuel such as natural gas or oil rise sharply.if utilities are suddenly freed to add significant generating capacity.
that demand from independent producers could evaporate.or utilities are suddenly freed to add significant generating capacity.
it is prepared.that scenario occurs.
The company already is gearing up for a renaissance of nuclear power.it hasn't received an order for a domestic nuclear plant in a decade.
we expect it'll be on line by 2000.we see an order.
The boys with the white elephants on their sleeves might not have made the earth move much.they certainly did some impressive things with baseballs.
That's geologically correct.but a trifle unfair.
and brought their big heat -- Will Clark and Kevin Mitchell -- to the plate with one out and a runner on.Clark flied out to short right field and Mitchell's drive to left was caught on the warning track by Rickey Henderson.
But Clark flied out to short right field.Mitchell's drive to left was caught on the warning track by Rickey Henderson.
But Clark flied out to short right field and Mitchell's drive to left was caught on the warning track by Rickey Henderson.62,000 sets of lungs exhaled as one.
I told him to make Mitchell reach for everything.that's what we did.
I told him to make Mitchell reach for everything.that's what we did.
he mighta hit it out.it had been.
and managed to stir their fans only once..That came in the seventh inning of Game Four when, trailing 8-2, they scored four times and brought their big heat -- Will Clark and Kevin Mitchell -- to the plate with one out and a runner on.if the A's hadn't won in four, they would have prevailed in five, or six, or seven.
But they would have prevailed in five, or six, or seven.the A's hadn't won in four.
The best baseball teams win six of 10 games.the worst win four of 10.
Baseball ain't football, where the good teams beat up on the bad ones.These A's got few grades as low as B on their 1989 report card.
and flattened the Toronto Blue Jays four games to one for the American League pennant.stomping their cross-bay rivals.
The pithiest testimony to their domination of the just-concluded tournament came from Giants' manager Roger Craig.his team had fallen in Game Three to a five-home-run barrage that tied a 61-year-old Series record.
Their 85 total bases broke a record for a four-game set.their nine home runs tied one.
The sole A not to homer was cleanup hitter Mark McGwire, their regular-season leader with 33.he contributed five hits plus a diving fielding play on a ground ball in Game Three that stopped a Giant rally while the issue still was in doubt.
that stopped a Giant rally.the issue still was in doubt.
The sole A not to homer was cleanup hitter Mark McGwire, their regular-season leader with 33, and he contributed five hits plus a diving fielding play on a ground ball in Game Three that stopped a Giant rally while the issue still was in doubt.Even with that power show the Oakland Series' star, certified by the Most Valuable Player award, was a pitcher, Dave Stewart.
Afterward Stewart said he thought his championship-team ring would outshine his individual trophy.the A's toasted their victory with beer.
Give me four or five more Series with these guys.I don't care if I ever win a Cy Young.
his championship-team ring would outshine his individual trophy.the possibility of an A's ring cycle, a/k/a a dynasty, was a major topic of post-game discussion Saturday.
The last Series sweep, by the Cincinnati Reds, came in 1976.which was the first year of baseball player free agency.
It was widely predicted that free agency would allow the glamorous, "big market" teams to monopolize the best talent.quite the opposite has occurred.
The rationale for responding to your customers' needs faster than the competition can is clear.managers today are probably more aware of speed as a competitive variable than ever before.
In fact, managers today are probably more aware of speed as a competitive variable than ever before.for many, managing speed does not come naturally.
Haste makes waste.Don't cut corners.
Most of us grew up believing in the axioms `Haste makes waste' and `Don't cut corners, ' ideas that seem to run counter to the concept of managing speed.in the real world, you learn that speed and quality are not a trade-off.
The packages must be sorted quickly and distributed to smaller vans for delivery.couriers can be on the road by 8:35.
No customer is present at the morning package sort.the process is nevertheless critical to customer satisfaction.
No customer is present at the morning package sort.but the process is critical to customer satisfaction.
We suspected there was downtime built into our process.we didn't know just where it was until we completed our data gathering.
But we didn't know just where it was.we completed our data gathering.
The vans leave at least 15 minutes earlier, on average, than they used to.service levels have increased to the point where they're consistently above 99%.
First, they produced a flowchart detailing the process by which an air-separation plant actually gets built.they identified snags in the process.
The Tonawanda team determined that holdups for inspections were the main problem and identified which kinds of delays involved critical inspections and which were less critical or could be handled by workers already on the line.The team proposed modifications in their work process to management.
First, we have better quality assurance than ever.the people building the product have taken on more responsibility for the quality of their own work.
We needed contributions from all these departments to generate the proposal.instead of gathering their input piecemeal, we formed the team, which reached consensus on the proposal objectives and produced a statement of work to guide all the functions that were involved.
We cleared up questions and inconsistencies very quickly.the people who had the skills and perspective required to resolve them were part of the task team.
They effectively lead team efforts to reduce cycle time.they prepare all their people to increase the speed and improve the quality of their own work.
Home taping of pre-recorded music cuts into record industry revenues.banning home taping would hurt consumers even more.
A recent agreement between the recording industry and electronics manufacturers requires that any digital audio tape, or DAT, recorder sold in the U.S. have a built-in device that restricts its ability to make second copies from DAT tape copies of digital compact disks.the disappointing sales of DAT machines here and abroad so far have not seemed to warrant the three years of legal wrangling that went into the agreement.
Under current copyright laws, it is considered "fair use" to reproduce copyrighted material for one's personal use or for use by one's family or friends.copying for purposes of resale or profit is prohibited.
The study says that the "ambiguous legal status" of home copying makes it "appropriate to examine the effects on consumers, as well as on industry.The study says that advent of new communications technologies makes "an explicit congressional definition of the legal status of home copying more desirable in order to reduce legal and market uncertainties and to prevent de facto changes to copyright law through technology," and says that finding an "appropriate balance of harms and benefits is a political decision, not a technical one.
Werner K. Rey believes fortunes are made by being friendly.in little more than a decade of being friendly the 46-year-old Mr. Rey has grown from a modest banker to a billionaire.
Shareholders must approve the merger at general meetings of the two companies in late November.approval is almost certain since Mr. Rey and a friendly Adia management are in control.
But approval is almost certain.Mr. Rey and a friendly Adia management are in control.
I like to succeed.which he likes.
He was simply the first in this country to realize that treasures were just lying around waiting to be picked up.Rey found companies with weak earnings but rich assets.
Switzerland's most famous raider says he isn't one.the Swiss financial press in general, as well as many analysts, have had a hard time making up their minds about Mr. Rey and his un-Swiss ways.
Investing four million Swiss francs earned from his financial transactions and two million Swiss francs from his parents and his wife, Mr. Rey acquired 20% of Bally's shares.such tactics were alien to Switzerland in 1976, and still aren't common because of share restrictions that companies are allowed to maintain.
Eventually, Mr. Rey was forced to sell his Bally shares to the weapons maker Oerlikon-Buehrle Holding AG.establishment pressure grew on this hostile move into the Swiss old boys' network.
I bought from willing shareholders.Mr. Rey has been very careful since then to make sure his moves are welcome.
Nevertheless, Mr. Rey has been very careful since then to make sure his moves are welcome.he has worked to shed his raider image.
With the nonferrous metals business undermined in Switzerland by tough foreign competition and high domestic costs, this looked like a dull undertaking.Mr. Rey brought about a merger in the next few years between the country's major producers.
Once again the company's future looked less than rosy.after restructuring under new management, the profits began rolling in.
A major boost to Mr. Rey's respectability among the Swiss came in 1986 when he sold 60% of his Phibro Bank to the conservative Swiss cantonal banks In 1987, Mr. Rey bested leading publishing houses to take over Switzerland's Jean Frey AG, a major producer of magazines and newspapers.with the recent acquisition of 30% of Winterthur-based machinery manufacturer Gebrueder Sulzer AG, Mr. Rey has enjoyed the status of white knight.
In 1979, his career as an industrialist began with the acquisition of the Swiss metals works Selve, based in Thun..With the nonferrous metals business undermined in Switzerland by tough foreign competition and high domestic costs, this looked like a dull undertaking..But Mr. Rey brought about a merger in the next few years between the country's major producers; the increased efficiency has perked up the industry..Three years later, machinery producer Ateliers de Constructions Mecaniques de Vevey S.A. was to become part of the Rey empire..Once again the company's future looked less than rosy..But after restructuring under new management, the profits began rolling in..A major boost to Mr. Rey's respectability among the Swiss came in 1986 when he sold 60% of his Phibro Bank to the conservative Swiss cantonal banks..They renamed it Swiss Cantobank and are using it to expand abroad..In 1987, Mr. Rey bested leading publishing houses to take over Switzerland's Jean Frey AG, a major producer of magazines and newspapers..And with the recent acquisition of 30% of Winterthur-based machinery manufacturer Gebrueder Sulzer AG, Mr. Rey has enjoyed the status of white knight..Sulzer preferred him to financier Tito Tettamanti, whose secretive raid on the company's stock had led to a bitter battle.as such strategic investments have mounted, the merchant-banking arm of Mr. Rey's Omni Holding has been busily buying and selling dozens of companies, often after a financial or corporate restructuring.
In 1979, his career as an industrialist began with the acquisition of the Swiss metals works Selve, based in Thun..With the nonferrous metals business undermined in Switzerland by tough foreign competition and high domestic costs, this looked like a dull undertaking..But Mr. Rey brought about a merger in the next few years between the country's major producers; the increased efficiency has perked up the industry..Three years later, machinery producer Ateliers de Constructions Mecaniques de Vevey S.A. was to become part of the Rey empire..Once again the company's future looked less than rosy..But after restructuring under new management, the profits began rolling in..A major boost to Mr. Rey's respectability among the Swiss came in 1986 when he sold 60% of his Phibro Bank to the conservative Swiss cantonal banks..They renamed it Swiss Cantobank and are using it to expand abroad..In 1987, Mr. Rey bested leading publishing houses to take over Switzerland's Jean Frey AG, a major producer of magazines and newspapers..And with the recent acquisition of 30% of Winterthur-based machinery manufacturer Gebrueder Sulzer AG, Mr. Rey has enjoyed the status of white knight..Sulzer preferred him to financier Tito Tettamanti, whose secretive raid on the company's stock had led to a bitter battle.as such strategic investments have mounted, the merchant-banking arm of Mr. Rey's Omni Holding has been busily buying and selling dozens of companies, often after a financial or corporate restructuring.
Meanwhile the merchant-banking arm of Mr. Rey's Omni Holding has been busily buying and selling dozens of companies, often after a financial or corporate restructuring.such strategic investments have mounted.
The internal transaction within the Rey empire puzzled Harpener's small shareholders.it makes sense for Inspectorate-Adia to focus on its main businesses of product inspection and temporary help.
Ultimate expects the 3 1/2-year agreement to generate $100 million in sales.it wouldn't estimate profit.
In the second step of a reorganization that began earlier this year, Boeing Co. said it will create a Defense and Space Group to consolidate several divisions.Boeing officials and representatives of the Machinists union met separately last night with a federal mediator in an attempt to break the month-old strike that has shut the aerospace giant's assembly lines at a time when it has an $80 billion backlog of jetliner orders.
In the second step of a reorganization that began earlier this year, Boeing Co. said it will create a Defense and Space Group to consolidate several divisions.Boeing officials and representatives of the Machinists union met separately last night with a federal mediator in an attempt to break the month-old strike that has shut the aerospace giant's assembly lines at a time when it has an $80 billion backlog of jetliner orders.
Boeing has said repeatedly it won't expand its offer.the machinists have responded that the offer isn't good enough.
and the machinists have responded that the offer isn't good enough.the resolve of some of the striking 57,000 machinists might be weakening.
its military business is feeling the effects of a declining defense budget after a strong buildup during the Reagan presidency.Boeing's commercial business is booming.
its military business is feeling the effects of a declining defense budget after a strong buildup during the Reagan presidency.Boeing's commercial business is booming.
it will create a Defense and Space Group to consolidate several divisions.it also will reorganize all its work in Wichita into military and commercial divisions.
In May, the company consolidated its Aerospace and Electronics groups.it will reorganize all its work in Wichita into military and commercial divisions.
A two-day meeting of representatives of Cocom, the 17-nation group that oversees exports of sensitive goods to communist countries, didn't take any substantive decisions on trimming the list of items under controls.did it ease restrictions on exports to Poland and Hungary, according to U.S. officials who attended the talks.
A two-day meeting of representatives of Cocom, the 17-nation group that oversees exports of sensitive goods to communist countries, didn't take any substantive decisions on trimming the list of items under controls.did it ease restrictions on exports to Poland and Hungary, according to U.S. officials who attended the talks.
The U.S. had been under pressure from several Cocom members, especially France, West Germany and Italy, to ease restrictions on some types of machine tools.Some countries have been pressing for special treatment for Hungary and Poland just as special treatment had been agreed on for China.
Some countries also have been pressing for special treatment for Hungary and Poland just as special treatment had been agreed on for China.they move toward more democratic rule.
Some countries also have been pressing for special treatment for Hungary and Poland as they move toward more democratic rule, just as special treatment had been agreed on for China.representatives at the meeting decided that this was "a matter for further discussion at future meetings.
that "all of us (Cocom members) look at the changes in Hungary and Poland in a positive way.a question of this scope deserves further discussion and study.
that "all of us (Cocom members) look at the changes in Hungary and Poland in a positive way, but a question of this scope deserves further discussion and study.the meeting agreed to continue treating China as a special case, despite the recent repression of dissent there, but to offer no further concessions.
this meeting "put in motion" procedural steps that would speed up both of these functions.that no specific decisions were taken on either matter.
The quarter was terrible.the future looks anything but encouraging.
On top of that, the Blue Bell, Pa., concern took a $230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees.The company took a write-off of $150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts.
The company also took a write-off of $150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts.some new managers took a hard look at the prospects for that slow-growing business.
On top of that, the Blue Bell, Pa., concern took a $230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees company also took a write-off of $150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts.Unisys set up an unspecified reserve -- apparently $60 million to $70 million -- to cover the minimum amount it will have to pay the government because of its involvement in the defense-procurement scandal.
In addition, Unisys set up an unspecified reserve -- apparently $60 million to $70 million -- to cover the minimum amount it will have to pay the government because of its involvement in the defense-procurement scandal.Unisys noted that it paid $78.8 million in taxes during the quarter, even though tax payments normally would be minimal in a quarter that produced such a big loss.
that it paid $78.8 million in taxes during the quarter.tax payments normally would be minimal in a quarter that produced such a big loss.
Unisys had an operating loss of about $30 million..On top of that, the Blue Bell, Pa., concern took a $230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees company also took a write-off of $150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts, as some new managers took a hard look at the prospects for that slow-growing business..In addition, Unisys set up an unspecified reserve -- apparently $60 million to $70 million -- to cover the minimum amount it will have to pay the government because of its involvement in the defense-procurement scandal that it paid $78.8 million in taxes during the quarter, even though tax payments normally would be minimal in a quarter that produced such a big loss.it reduced computer inventories a further $100 million during the quarter, leaving it within $100 million of its goal of a reduction of $500 million by the end of the year.
it reduced computer inventories a further $100 million during the quarter, leaving it within $100 million of its goal of a reduction of $500 million by the end of the year.its European business was weak during the quarter, a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters.
Still, Unisys said its European business was weak during the quarter, a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters.The company reported slower growth in another important business: systems that use the Unix operating system.
That would be a huge problem.it were to continue.
That would be a huge problem if it were to continue.Unisys is betting its business on the assumption that customers want to move away from using operating systems that run on only one manufacturer's equipment and toward systems -- mainly Unix -- that work on almost anyone's machines.
its European business was weak during the quarter, a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters slower growth in another important business: systems that use the Unix operating system.Unisys must deal with its increasingly oppressive debt load.
He said the strength of the world-wide economy is suspect, and doesn't see much revenue growth in the cards.He said that the price wars flaring up in parts of the computer industry will continue through next year.
The information-systems industry is still going to be a high-growth business.we're confident that we have tremendous assets as a company.
The information-systems industry is still going to be a high-growth business, and we're confident that we have tremendous assets as a company.we don't minimize the challenges of the near term.
Some had predicted earnings of more than $4 a share for this year, up from last year's fully diluted $3.27 a share on earnings of $680.6 million.the company said Friday that it had losses of $673.3 million through the first nine months, compared with earnings a year earlier of $382.2 million, or $2.22 a share fully diluted, as revenue inched up 1.4% to $7.13 billion from $7.03 billion.
that it had losses of $673.3 million through the first nine months, compared with earnings a year earlier of $382.2 million, or $2.22 a share fully diluted.revenue inched up 1.4% to $7.13 billion from $7.03 billion.
that it had losses of $673.3 million through the first nine months, compared with earnings a year earlier of $382.2 million, or $2.22 a share fully diluted, as revenue inched up 1.4% to $7.13 billion from $7.03 billion.Unisys is expected to do little better than break even in the fourth quarter.
Friday that it had losses of $673.3 million through the first nine months, compared with earnings a year earlier of $382.2 million, or $2.22 a share fully diluted, as revenue inched up 1.4% to $7.13 billion from $7.03 billion..And Unisys is expected to do little better than break even in the fourth quarter.he is cutting his earnings estimate for next year to $2 a share from $3.
The break-even point for next year is much lower.is it low enough.
Donald H. Straszheim surely understands.a TV weatherman gets butterflies facing the camera again after a questionable forecast.
The chief economist of Merrill Lynch & Co. finds himself in such a position.he buzzes the Midwest on his first road trip since backpedaling on a major prediction.
Mr. Straszheim expects he will take some heat.he's right.
Since the last time he traveled this way several months ago, he has recanted a series of bold forecasts of a recession.In February 1988 Merrill Lynch's weekly commentary announced that "the economy is likely to fall into recession in early 1989.
The forecasts were widely disseminated.in a splashy ad campaign launched in the summer of 1988, Merrill Lynch urged investors to buy bonds.
long-term interest rates, then above 9%, could drop to 7% by the end of 1989.bonds, which benefit from falling rates, would be a good buy.
and, in a splashy ad campaign launched in the summer of 1988, Merrill Lynch urged investors to buy bonds.The firm raised the percentage of bonds in its model portfolio from 40% to 45% and later to 55%.
In February 1988, for example, Merrill Lynch's weekly commentary announced that "the economy is likely to fall into recession in early 1989.this September he took a detour if not a U-turn.
He softened the talk about a recession.Now he is predicting economic growth of 2.9% this year and 2.1% next year, a more optimistic outlook than the consensus of some four dozen top forecasters surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators newsletter.
Now, in fact, he is predicting economic growth of 2.9% this year and 2.1% next year, a more optimistic outlook than the consensus of some four dozen top forecasters surveyed by Blue Chip Economic Indicators newsletter.just recently, Merrill Lynch cut the recommended bondholdings back to 50%.
they aren't.such changes might sound minor.
Now a rocky stock market and weak corporate profits may further threaten the economy.that "it may prove to be the case that we got whipsawed -- that we pulled the recession forecast at just the wrong time.
Pestered by bosses, brokers, clients and media people and pushed by their own egos, Wall Street economists are forecasting about everything from broad economic trends to the dinkiest monthly indicator.the surprisingly durable seven-year economic expansion has made mincemeat of more than one forecast.
Some smaller clients don't seem to notice his switch.with some clients, the talk can heat up a bit.
A good half-hour into breakfast at the Palmer House, Mr. O'Brien looks up from his plate.Mr. Straszheim says something about people who believe interest rates are about to nosedive.
He doesn't fully succeed.Mr. Straszheim lists an array of interest-rate scenarios.
Dennis O'Brien, the treasurer of Commonwealth Edison Co. in Chicago, adopts a polite approach, waiting for an opportunity to ask about the forecast.In a chilly conference room at Alliance Capital Management in Minneapolis the firm's money managers seem ready to pin Mr. Straszheim to the wall.
Do we want to go through this.can we ask you why you changed your forecast just when it's about to be right.
Do we want to go through this.can we ask you why you changed your forecast just when it's about to be right.
why you changed your forecast.it's about to be right.
that the new outlook, though still weak, doesn't justify calling a recession right now.We could have a recession" at some point.
We're not running that ad campaign any more," Mr. Straszheim snaps in a rare show of irritation..He adds, "I think it was a fairly decent call.Mr. Straszheim says It's hard to pin this on one factor.
His new forecast calls for "a soft landing.it may be right.
You make a forecast.then you become its prisoner.
You make a forecast.and you become its prisoner.
and then you become its prisoner.It is hard to back away from a widely publicized forecast.
It is indeed hard to back away from a widely publicized forecast.Mr. Straszheim is fidgeting with the handcuffs on this trip.
that in the past it considered seeking control of Milton Roy, of St. Petersburg, Fla., through a merger or tender offer.that it expects to continue to evaluate an acquisition from time to time.
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Milton Roy shares leaped $2, to $18.375 each.Crane sank $1.125, to $21.125 a share.
Thermo Electron acquired some 6% of Milton Roy's common stock.throwing in the towel and reducing its stake in early September.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer, Nigel Lawson, resigned.Prime Minister Thatcher would not fire her trusted adviser Sir Alan Walters.
the dispute is worth examining.there is an effort to "anchor the dollar" either to gold or other currencies.
Until his resignation, Mr. Lawson had been conducting British monetary policy.the pound were tied to the mark.
Mr. Lawson flooded the country with money to prevent the pound from rising against the mark.Mrs. Thatcher cut the top tax rate to 40%.
Mr. Lawson flooded the country with money to prevent the pound from rising against the mark.Mrs. Thatcher cut the top tax rate to 40%.
Mr. Lawson flooded the country with money to prevent the pound from rising against the mark.he reignited the inflation that Mrs. Thatcher, through a long and costly effort, had subdued.
the British would have been unable to cut their exorbitant tax rates.the pound had been tied to the mark.
it makes itself more attractive to investors and drives up the value of its currency.a country cuts tax rates.
This misguided policy could not prevent a British trade deficit.Mr. Lawson saddled Mrs. Thatcher with a record trade deficit, renewed inflation and high interest rates -- three political failures in a row.
that the flow abroad of British capital slowed, to 50 billion pounds ($79 billion at the current rate) in 1988 from 93 billion pounds in 1986.the top tax rate was cut to 40%.
The most important governments have ignored the role of low tax rates in attracting real capital investment.emphasizing financial flows in response to high interest rates.
First comes monetary expansion to drive down the currency's value that was pushed up by tax-rate reduction.when the currency falls, interest rates are raised to attract financial flows in order to stabilize the exchange rate.
Then interest rates are raised to attract financial flows in order to stabilize the exchange rate.the currency falls.
This policy is totally mindless.Sir Alan is correct to point out its deficiencies.
German reunification is likely to require Germany's neutralization.the Soviet Union collapses.
The implications for Britain, France and the rest of Europe of having their currencies tied to the economic policy of a neutral country need considering.we judge Mr. Lawson's resignation to be unfortunate.
The figures came.the government released a report showing that consumer spending propelled U.S. economic expansion in the third quarter while -- on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed, government spending declined, and exports were flat.
that consumer spending propelled U.S. economic expansion in the third quarter.on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed, government spending declined, and exports were flat.
while -- on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed, government spending declined.exports were flat.
The figures came a day after the government released a report showing that consumer spending propelled U.S. economic expansion in the third quarter while -- on an inflation-adjusted basis -- business investment slowed, government spending declined, and exports were flat.the new statistics show that by September, the burst in spending seemed to be tapering off.
In August, personal income rose 0.3%.spending grew 0.9%.
Car sales slackened in September.the 1990 models were introduced.
RA acquired the Howick coal mine Oct. 20.CRA said that it was looking for a partner for the mine.
Control Data Corp thinks it will be healthy enough soon to consider repurchasing public debt.the company now sees alliances with others as the way back to prosperity in what it calls "the data solutions" business.
I'm not saying everything is hunky-dory.we have completed the transition.
Now, following asset sales that shrank revenue by more than one-third this year alone, Control Data is flush with cash.its senior executives are talking openly about possibly buying back some of the company's $172.5 million in subordinated convertible debentures next year.
the company is achieving "modest positive cash flow from operations.we expect that to continue into 1990.
future restructuring would be a question of strategy.a few assets are still being shopped -- including the sports and entertainment ticketing portion of the company's Ticketron unit.
Ticketron's automated wagering business, which operates lotteries in a half dozen states, is not for sale.Control Data intends to bid for the coming Minnesota lottery contract and is seeking new applications for the technology overseas.
Control Data's semiconductor business, VTC Inc., continues to lose money.they consider some of the technology vital to national defense and so are reluctant to dispose of it.
they consider some of the technology vital to national defense.and are reluctant to dispose of it.
that those costs were running at nearly 35% of group revenue.Control Data scrapped its ETA Systems Inc. supercomputer business this past spring.
Reviewing the company's scrape with disaster, Mr. Price conceded it had tried to do too much on its own. "Absolutely," he said.while its stock is selling at about half Control Data's estimated breakup value, neither Messrs..Perlman nor Price said he spends much time considering the possibility of a hostile takeover.
But neither Messrs..Perlman nor Price said he spends much time considering the possibility of a hostile takeover.its stock is selling at about half Control Data's estimated breakup value.
I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems.I start my commute to work with eyes tearing and head aching from the polluted air.
I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems.I start my commute to work with eyes tearing and head aching from the polluted air.
I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems.I try to enjoy the beaches and come home covered with tar and oil.
I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems.I try to enjoy the beaches and come home covered with tar and oil.
I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems.I hear of numerous deaths related to irresponsible processing of cheese and use of chemicals in fruit growing.
I find it hard to ignore our environmental problems.I hear of numerous deaths related to irresponsible processing of cheese and use of chemicals in fruit growing.
simply ignoring our problems will result in their severity increasing and spreading throughout the state, the nation and the world.there are no easy low-cost solutions.
I realize you were just looking for something snotty to say about California and its environmental movement.picking Frank Lloyd Wright to say it for you was a bad call.
Wright's organic architecture demonstrated a keen sensitivity to the environment decades.it became fashionable among "la-la activists.
Wright's organic architecture demonstrated a keen sensitivity to the environment decades before it became fashionable among "la-la activists.Wright said all his life that the greatest lessons he learned were derived from the study of nature.
Perhaps Mr. Reagan, who claimed that air pollution is caused by trees, is the man you should be quoting to back up your position that economics is more important than the Earth.it was Frank Lloyd Wright who said, "Is this not Anti-Christ?.The Moloch that knows no God but more.
Would-be naysayers should have the burden of proving reasonable necessity.they urge a prohibition for enactment into law.
Would-be naysayers should have the burden of proving reasonable necessity.they urge a prohibition for enactment into law.
Revenue last year increased by more than 11% over 1988.net income nearly tripled from restated year-earlier net of $900 million.
Systemwide, IATA airlines carried 632 million passengers last year, 2% more than in 1987.passenger-kilometers, the distance flown while carrying people, increased 5.3% in 1988.
flown.carrying people.
the definition of anti-Soviet crimes had narrowed, the laws had changed.people no longer have to fear a simple slip of the tongue.
to curb dog-meat consumption.it offends foreigners.
the producers would be fighting over two scripts with nothing but an opening scene in common.this battle were a movie.
he was "shocked.Mr. Ross refused a meeting and made it clear he would stop them.
he was "shocked.Mr. Ross refused a meeting and made it clear he would stop them.
Warner denies Mr. Ross ever said any such thing.and denies virtually everything Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters say in their affidavits.
The battery of legal documents filed in the past week in connection with the suit provide a peek into the inner workings of this Hollywood dogfight.they also make it clear that the first thing a judge will have to decide is which, if any, version of events in this morass is fiction, and which fact.
The battery of legal documents filed in the past week in connection with the suit provide a peek into the inner workings of this Hollywood dogfight.But they make it clear that the first thing a judge will have to decide is which, if any, version of events in this morass is fiction, and which fact.
that what it really wants is for the producers to fulfill their contractual obligations.the bitterness of this battle and the accusations flying on both sides make it unlikely that the decade-long relationship between Warner and its two most prolific producers can ever be repaired.
Warner says it is willing to settle the matter out of court.So far Sony hasn't been willing to meet its considerable financial demands.
Sony, for its part, could decide that the cost of a Warner settlement or court fight is too high.choosing to find someone else to run Columbia.
to find someone else to run Columbia.that too would be costly given the financial arrangement already guaranteed to Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters.
In that case, Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters might not suffer financially.they would be left without their dream job of running a studio and with a considerably scarred relationship with Warner.
At the center of any court fight will be the differing interpretations of the written contract between Warner and the two producers.other murkier issues will play a big role.
allowed them to terminate the current written contract.the opportunity to run a major studio came up.
that Warner was "taking over" the picture.another producer would be giving all of the orders.
Over his objections the film's release date was moved up "by many months" to December.plans for a soundtrack "worth millions of dollars" were dropped.
just tell him everything is fine.he calls you up.
Warner Brothers production president Mark Canton called him Oct. 19 and said Mr. Peters is "off the picture.the new producer on the film, Bruce Baird, told editors to screen the picture without telling stars Sylvester Stallone and Kurt Russell or Mr. Peters.
just lie and tell them it will be done.someone asks.
just lie.tell them it will be done.
that Mr. Semel "hugged and congratulated me, and expressed joy that we had finally realized our long-term ambition of running and having an equity position in a major entertainment company.he advised Warner President Terry Semel of the Sony offer at lunch on Sept. 25.
he couldn't sign any documents.that "the deal, although apparently a good one for him and Mr. Peters, would have a very negative impact on Warner.
and that "the deal would have a very negative impact on Warner.apparently a good one for him and Mr. Peters.
he would contact Mr. Ross and Warner Brothers Chairman Robert Daly.that, in a conference call, the three agreed they couldn't let the producers out of their contract.
that Mr. Semel did convey that information.that Mr. Semel said Mr. Ross was "crazy because of the Time deal.
that Mr. Semel did convey that information and that Mr. Semel said Mr. Ross was "crazy because of the Time deal.that Mr. Daly "told us that even if Sony did not want us, Warner's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged, that there was no way `to put the egg together, ' and that it would sue Sony for tons of money.
that Warner's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged, that there was no way `to put the egg together, ' and that it would sue Sony for tons of money.Sony did not want us.
Warner's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged, that there was no way `to put the egg together.that it would sue Sony for tons of money.
that even if Sony did not want us, Warner's relationship with us already was irreparably damaged, that there was no way `to put the egg together, ' and that it would sue Sony for tons of money.that Mr. Ross probably wouldn't object "if it were anybody other than Sony.
that Mr. Ross probably wouldn't object.it were anybody other than Sony.
that Mr. Ross probably wouldn't object "if it were anybody other than Sony.Sony is a problem.
According to this theory, Warner executives, hoping to strengthen their relationships with the producers, encouraged Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters in their ambitions to build a major entertainment company.the Warner executives in their affidavits deny ever telling the producers they could get out of their written contract.
they have 50 projects in development for Warner.that not all of the projects will be used.
that not all of the projects will be used.that since 1985, he and Mr. Peters have developed over 85 movie projects, and Warner has "passed" or chosen not to produce at least 76.
that since 1985, he and Mr. Peters have developed over 85 movie projects.Warner has "passed" or chosen not to produce at least 76.
it purchased Cable USA Inc., a privately held cable television system in Carroll County, Ga., a suburb of Atlanta.The company has acquired Sundance Publishers and Distributors Inc., a family owned producer and distributor of educational materials in Littleton, Mass.
the good news is that the deficits are not heading up.you can't be satisfied with deficits at this level and we're not.
but you can't be satisfied with deficits at this level.we're not.
on cleaning up the thrift industry.the year ended on Sept. 30.
the savings-and-loan outlays were pushed into fiscal 1990.the Resolution Trust Corp. couldn't spend the money fast enough.
The 1989 deficit would have been nearly $10 billion larger had the government been able to spend as much as Congress intended on cleaning up the thrift industry before the year ended on Sept. 30..Because the Resolution Trust Corp. couldn't spend the money fast enough, the savings-and-loan outlays were pushed into fiscal 1990.the 1989 deficit still exceeded the $136 billion target set by the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law by $16 billion, a reminder of that law's shortcomings.
The Treasury marked up its forecast by $17 million in July.that proved to be about $5 billion too optimistic.
that were issued in September this year.Oct. 1 fell on a Sunday.
to recommend paying a modest dividend.the board of directors met Friday.
The company suffered a loss of $270 million in 1985.its financial situation has been improving since then.
The company suffered a loss of $270 million in 1985.its financial situation has been improving since then.
that foreign companies can acquire Japanese companies.the alternative for the Japanese company is extinction.
The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has been demolished at a stroke.Sansui is a special case.
It expects to post a loss of 6.4 billion yen for the year ending tomorrow.its liabilities currently exceed its assets by about 13.8 billion yen.
they are not for sale.you find sound, healthy companies in Japan.
Statistics on acquisitions by foreigners vary in detail.unlike Sansui most of the Japanese companies acquired by foreigners are privately held.
Statistics on acquisitions by foreigners vary in detail, because unlike Sansui, which is listed on the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges, most of the Japanese companies acquired by foreigners are privately held.by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year, while Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies.
But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year.Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies.
But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year.do analysts expect the Sansui deal to touch off a fresh wave of foreign purchases.
webs of cross-shareholdings between friendly Japanese companies and fiercely independent Japanese corporate attitudes repel most would-be acquirers.the strong yen and the high stock prices of Japanese companies weren't deterrents enough.
Usually it has few alternatives remaining.a Japanese company is ready to sell.
Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell, it has few alternatives remaining.the grim demeanors of Sansui's directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not the company's finest hour.
Sansui was once one of Japan's premier makers of expensive, high-quality stereo gear for audiophiles.in recent years, the market has moved toward less expensive "mini-component" sets, miniaturized amplifiers and receivers and software players that could be stacked on top of each other.
Sansui's deepening financial problems became a vicious circle.the yen soared in recent years.
Sansui lacked the money to build new plants in Southeast Asia.competitors moved production offshore in response to the sagging competitiveness of Japanese factories.
Our company has not been able to cope very effectively with" changes in the marketplace.even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern.
Attitudes {toward being acquired} are still negative.they're becoming more positive.
Whether Polly Peck's acquisition makes sense remains to be seen.at the news conference, Mr. Nadir brimmed with self-confidence that he can turn Sansui around.
it (Sansui) needs.it can compete and become a totally global entity capable of competing with the best in the world.
using Sansui's engineers to design the new products.while Polly Peck isn't jettisoning the existent top-management structure of Sansui, it is bringing in a former Toshiba Corp. executive as executive vice president and chief operating officer.
And it is bringing in a former Toshiba Corp. executive as executive vice president and chief operating officer.Polly Peck isn't jettisoning the existent top-management structure of Sansui.
The bolstered cellular agreement between BellSouth Corp. and LIN Broadcasting Corp. carries heightened risks and could fail to fend off McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., the rival suitor for LIN.the amended pact shows how McCaw's persistence has pushed LIN and BellSouth into a corner, forcing huge debt on the proposed new company.
The plan still calls for LIN to combine its cellular telephone properties with BellSouth's and to spin off its broadcasting operations.under new terms of the agreement LIN holders would receive a special cash dividend of $42 a share, representing a payout of about $2.23 billion, shortly before the proposed merger.
it expects to borrow the money to pay the dividend.commitments from banks still haven't been obtained.
But under new terms of the agreement LIN holders would receive a special cash dividend of $42 a share, representing a payout of about $2.23 billion, shortly before the proposed merger.New York-based LIN would exercise its right to buy out for $1.9 billion the 55% equity interest of its partner, Metromedia Co., in a New York cellular franchise.
it expects to borrow the money to pay the dividend.That money would have to be borrowed.
he estimated that the company wouldn't be profitable until 1994 or later.he expressed confidence that the proposed new company's cash flow would be sufficient to cover interest payments on the debt.
At some point, it will become non-economical for one company.I don't think we're at that point yet.
to give extra protection to holders.the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company.
BellSouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders if the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company.McCaw's bid has a similar clause.
BellSouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders if the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company.BellSouth agreed to pay as much as $10 a share, or $540 million, if, after five years, the trading value of the new cellular company isn't as high as the value that shareholders would have realized from the McCaw offer.
to pay as much as $10 a share, or $540 million.after five years, the trading value of the new cellular company isn't as high as the value that shareholders would have realized from the McCaw offer.
We didn't think a sleeping {Bell} mentality would be willing to take on dilution.Kenneth Leon, a telecommunications analyst with Bear, Stearns & Co., finds the BellSouth proposal still flawed because the company doesn't have to wait five years to begin buying more LIN shares.
But Kenneth Leon, a telecommunications analyst with Bear, Stearns & Co., finds the BellSouth proposal still flawed.the company doesn't have to wait five years to begin buying more LIN shares.
BellSouth's revised proposal surprised many industry analysts, especially because of the company's willingness to accept some dilution of future earnings.BellSouth's cellular operations were among the first in the country to become profitable.
Analysts were predicting 1990 BellSouth earnings in the range of $3.90 a share, or $1.9 billion.now those estimates are being scaled back.
In national over-the-counter trading, LIN shares soared $4.625 to closed at $112.625.McCaw fell $2.50 a share to $37.75.
that McCaw, in an attempt to buy time, might consider filing an antitrust suit against BellSouth with the Justice Department and U.S. District Judge Harold Greene.McCaw seemed to hint at that option in a brief statement.
Market makers in Nasdaq over-the-counter stocks are adding their voices to the swelling chorus of complaints about program trading.Their motivation has a strong practical aspect.
Program trading is hazardous to their paychecks.Program trading causes the Nasdaq Composite Index to lose ground against other segments of the stock market.
Because of program trading it is more difficult to trade many OTC stocks without sharp price moves, a condition known as illiquidity.the price volatility that is amplified by program trading is undercutting efforts to woo individual investors back to an OTC market that sorely misses them.
Some of these problems are neither new nor unique to the OTC market.the big, often tumultuous slide in stock prices this month has turned some of those who have been profiting from the practice against it.
that he wasn't troubled by program trading.it began in the pre-crash bull market.
that he wasn't troubled by program trading when it began in the pre-crash bull market.it added liquidity and people were pleased to see stock prices rising.
because it added liquidity.people were pleased to see stock prices rising.
We weren't as concerned.they became sell programs.
who now thinks it adds unnecessary volatility.Shearson Lehman executes program trades for clients.
Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs and Kidder Peabody, in addition to Shearson, do program-trade OTC stocks.they do so only for customers.
Of course, there were sell programs in past years, too.they seem to hurt market makers more painfully these days.
when individual investors fled the market.trading activity dwindled.
to sell investors.other holders aren't selling.
Market makers, to cut costs, slashed inventories of stocks they keep on hand to sell investors when other holders aren't selling.to protect their reduced capital investment from eroding further, market makers became quicker to lower price quotes when sell programs are in progress.
to lower price quotes.sell programs are in progress.
to buy shares from sellers.no one else will.
for us to put money at risk.you know you're going to lose.
It makes no sense for us to put money at risk when you know you're going to lose.this skittishness is creating liquidity problems in certain OTC stocks.
It's harder to sell stocks.the sell programs come in.
It's harder to sell stocks when the sell programs come in.some market makers don't want to {take the orders.
No one has big positions.no one wants to take big risks.
that program trading is hurting the market's efforts to bring back small investors.while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down, they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher.
But they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher.makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down.
while makers suffer losses.program trading drags the market down.
But while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down.they make money when program trading pushes the prices higher.
But they also make money.program trading pushes the prices higher.
the composite tumbles as well as the Dow Jones Industrial Average.the computers say "sell.
that the Nasdaq Composite frequently is left behind.the industrial average and the S&P 500 usually recover as buy programs kick in.
while the industrial average and the S&P 500 usually recover.buy programs kick in.
that while the industrial average and the S&P 500 usually recover as buy programs kick in, the Nasdaq Composite frequently is left behind.Eight trading days after Oct. 12, the day before the stock market plunge the Nasdaq Composite had fallen 4.3%, compared with 3.3% for the S&P 500, 3.5% for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index and 3.6% for the industrial average.
Weisfield's rocketed 9 1/2 to 39.the jewelry store operator said it is in preliminary discussions, with a party it wouldn't identify, regarding the possible acquisition of the company.
Weisfield's rocketed 9 1/2 to 39.the jewelry store operator said it is in preliminary discussions, with a party it wouldn't identify, regarding the possible acquisition of the company.
Starpointe Savings Bank rose 3 to 20.the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved Dime Savings Bank of New York's $21-a-share acquisition of Starpointe.
London share prices closed sharply lower Friday in active trading.Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's resignation slapped the market and Wall Street's rapid initial sell-off knocked it down.
after Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's resignation slapped the market.Wall Street's rapid initial sell-off knocked it down.
It showed some early resilience.central bank support firmed sterling.
It showed some early resilience after central bank support firmed sterling.the weight of Wall Street late in London trading, and signs of further weakness in the British pound, proved a hefty load to bear.
New York stocks recovered some of their losses.the London market closed.
the turnover, largely confined to the 100-share index stocks, partly reflected the flurry of activity typical at the close of a two-week trading account and the start of a new account.Friday's focus on the top-tier stocks telegraphed active overseas selling and showed the broad-based fears over the status of the U.K. economy and Britain's currency in the wake of the upheaval in Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's cabinet.
Among the other actively traded blue-chip issues, Imperial Chemical Industries dropped 11 to #10.86, Hanson skidded 9.5 to 200.5.British Telecom fell 10 to 250.
Dealers placed heavy buy orders in the morning to start the first trading day for November transactions.they failed to sell these stocks to client investors, who were cautious about the sharp gains these issues made this week.
that selling pressure wasn't enormous.that the DAX dropped Friday more on a lack of any substantial buying interest.
the market itself looks very cheap.you take away the outside influences.
institutions to take a reserved stance on the sidelines as well.the market in New York settles down somewhat.
Elsewhere, share prices closed lower in Paris, Zurich, Amsterdam, Brussels and Stockholm, and were mixed in Milan.Share prices closed lower in Sydney, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taipei, Manila, Wellington and Seoul.
who served 26 years in prison.being released two weeks ago.
President de Klerk's government permitted the rally.security forces didn't interfere.
Senate Majority Leader Mitchell said on NBC-TV that Ortega had made "a very unwise move.lawmakers haven't raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras following Ortega's weekend threat to end a truce.
that cuts spending for new installations by 16%.The measure moves more than $450 million in the Pentagon budget to home-state projects from foreign bases.
Afghan guerrillas bombarded Kabul in a weekend assault that Western diplomats called one of the biggest offensives since the Soviet Union completed a troop withdrawal in February.The rebels reportedly tightened a blockade on roads leading to the capital, and government forces shelled a guerrilla-held area in western Afghanistan.
The rebels also reportedly tightened a blockade on roads leading to the capital.government forces shelled a guerrilla-held area in western Afghanistan.
Gen. Michel Aoun rejected the pact.it fails to provide a timetable for a Syrian troop pullout from Lebanon.
The plane failed to reach Molokai's airport Saturday.on a flight from the neighboring island of Maui.
orders were up a nominal 5%.adjustment for inflation.
foreign orders declined 4% after inflation and 1% on a nominal basis.domestic orders climbed an adjusted 8% and a nominal 11% in September.
Domestic orders were up a real 11% and a nominal 14%.foreign orders rose a real 1% and a nominal 5%.
more than 500 executives packing the room snapped to attention.Michael S. Perry took the podium at a recent cosmetics industry event.
First Unilever, the Anglo-Dutch packaged-goods giant, spent $2 billion to acquire brands such as Faberge and Elizabeth Arden.Procter & Gamble Co. agreed to buy Noxell Corp. for $1.3 billion.
P&G and Unilever bring with them great experience with mundane products like soap and toilet paper, sparking disdain in the glitzy cosmetics trade.they also bring mammoth marketing clout, sparking fear.
P&G and Unilever bring with them great experience with mundane products like soap and toilet paper, sparking disdain in the glitzy cosmetics trade.but they bring mammoth marketing clout, sparking fear.
there's little doubt they will shake up the industry.it is far from certain that companies best known for selling Promise margarine and Tide detergent will succeed in cosmetics.
For now, both companies are keeping quiet about their specific plans.industry watchers expect them to blend the methodical marketing strategies they use for more mundane products with the more intuitive approach typical of cosmetics companies.
Likely changes include more emphasis on research, soaring advertising budgets and aggressive pricing.some cosmetics-industry executives wonder whether techniques honed in packaged goods will translate to the cosmetics business.
Cosmetics companies roll out new makeup colors several times a year.since most products can be easily copied by competitors, they're loath to test them with consumers.
and they're loath to test them with consumers.most products can be easily copied by competitors.
it doesn't mean they are packaged goods.upscale cosmetics look like packaged goods and smell like packaged goods.
Both companies are conservative marketers that rely on extensive market research.P&G rarely rolls out a product nationally before extensive test-marketing.
P&G set out to reposition the brand by broadening the product line to include facial cleansers and moisturizers for sensitive skin.It redesigned Oil of Olay's packaging, stamping the traditional pink boxes with gold lines to create a more opulent look.
It also redesigned Oil of Olay's packaging, stamping the traditional pink boxes with gold lines to create a more opulent look.P&G shifted its ad campaign from one targeting older women to one featuring a woman in her mid-30s vowing "not to grow old gracefully.
Unilever won't comment.Schering denies the brand is for sale.
most makers of upscale cosmetics spend relatively little on national ads.the two are among the world's biggest advertisers.
most makers of upscale cosmetics spend relatively little on national ads.they focus on events in department stores and pour their promotional budgets into gifts that go along with purchases.
most makers of upscale cosmetics spend relatively little on national ads.Estee Lauder spends only an estimated 5% of sales on advertising in the U.S.
Estee Lauder, for example, spends only an estimated 5% of sales on advertising in the U.S.he has no plans to change his strategy.
The presence of Unilever and P&G is likely to increase the impact of advertising on cosmetics.The most dramatic changes probably will come in new-product development.
demand for mass-market items that are high quality but only mid-priced -- particularly skin-care products -- is expected to increase.the trend continues.
As the trend continues, demand for mass-market items that are high quality but only mid-priced -- particularly skin-care products -- is expected to increase.This fall L'Oreal Group, ordinarily a high-end line, rolled out a drug-store line of skin-care products called Plenitude, which retail for $5 to $15.
Unlike the old-line cosmetics houses, Unilever and P&G both have enormous research and development bases to draw on for new products.P&G is noted for gaining market leadership by introducing products that offer a technical edge over the competition.
P&G, in fact, is noted for gaining market leadership by introducing products that offer a technical edge over the competition.Sales of its Tide detergent soared earlier this year after P&G introduced a version that includes a bleach safe for all colors and fabrics.
Sales of its Tide detergent soared earlier this year, for example.P&G introduced a version that includes a bleach safe for all colors and fabrics.
The packaged-goods marketers may try filling that gap with a spate of new products.success for Unilever and P&G is far from guaranteed, as shown by the many consumer-product companies that have tried and failed to master the quirky beauty business.
Colgate sold the brand seven years later.the brand languished.
Colgate sold the brand seven years later.the brand languished.
In this niche, makeup colors change seasonally.they are linked to ready-to-wear fashions.
careful training of store sales staffs by cosmetics companies is important.brand loyalty is weak and most cosmetics purchases are unplanned.
Because brand loyalty is weak.most cosmetics purchases are unplanned.
Because brand loyalty is weak and most cosmetics purchases are unplanned, careful training of store sales staffs by cosmetics companies is important.cultivating a luxury image strong enough to persuade consumers to pay more than $15 for lipstick or eye makeup requires a subtle touch that packaged-goods companies have yet to demonstrate on their own.
to trust each other.it comes to setting policy on covert activities.
it could infuse covert action planning with a level of care and confidence that hasn't been seen in years.that attitude lasts.
Over the past week, the president has agreed to keep the committee informed, usually in advance, of covert actions and to put key intelligence decisions in writing.Mr. Bush has pledged to respect the 14-year-old executive order barring U.S. agents from assassinating foreign leaders or helping others to do so.
Mr. Bush has pledged as well to respect the 14-year-old executive order barring U.S. agents from assassinating foreign leaders or helping others to do so.Despite objections by the CIA, Mr. Bush has agreed to the establishment of an inspector general at the CIA who would be independent of the CIA director.
In return, the Senate panel has dropped efforts to enact legislation requiring the administration to inform it within 48 hours of the launching of any covert activity.It has removed a ban on CIA use of a contingency fund for covert acts and has agreed to wipe away some tortured and legalistic restrictions on coup planning put in place to ensure that the CIA didn't get back in the assassination game.
to notify the odious Panamanian dictator, Manuel Noriega.the U.S. learned of a coup plot that might endanger his life.
Mr. Bush even disclosed privately that one Reagan-era deal with Congress required him to notify the odious Panamanian dictator, Manuel Noriega, if the U.S. learned of a coup plot that might endanger his life.The president hinted he might veto this year's intelligence authorization bill if it is too restrictive.
he might veto this year's intelligence authorization bill.it is too restrictive.
not to press its advantage to the kind of constitutional confrontation sought by conservative Republicans who don't want any congressional oversight of intelligence activities.Mr. Bush and his aides made it clear they respected Congress's role and felt they could work with the conservative Mr. Boren and the moderate Mr. Cohen to iron out their differences.
that there had been "a meeting of the minds" with the White House.that the committee had given Mr. Bush "a clean slate," free of the impediments imposed during the Reagan years.
There may be a truce in the long war of nerves between the White House and Congress over how this country conducts secret intelligence operations abroad.There are some details to be nailed down.
Mr. Bush is reserving the right in "rare" instances to keep Congress in the dark, asserting a constitutional prerogative the committee doesn't recognize.a pending Justice Department interpretation of the assassination ban could raise questions that would have to be settled.
And a pending Justice Department interpretation of the assassination ban could raise questions that would have to be settled.both sides may face political critics.
Some conservatives will accuse the president of promising Congress too much.they continue anonymously attacking CIA Director William Webster for being too accommodating to the committee.
At the same time, some congressional liberals will accuse Sens..Boren and Cohen of wimping out.they will warn that the lawmakers' concessions raise the specter of more internationally embarrassing covert operations like the mining of Nicaraguan harbors and the Iran arms sales.
At the same time, some congressional liberals will accuse Sens..Boren and Cohen of wimping out, and they will warn that the lawmakers' concessions raise the specter of more internationally embarrassing covert operations like the mining of Nicaraguan harbors and the Iran arms sales.if the cooperative attitude holds and there is greater consultation on covert activities, the country could be entering an era when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped before they get off the drawing boards, while risky but well-planned secret operations can be undertaken without fear that a panicky Congress will balk.
But the country could be entering an era when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped before they get off the drawing boards, while risky but well-planned secret operations can be undertaken without fear that a panicky Congress will balk.the cooperative attitude holds and there is greater consultation on covert activities.
if the cooperative attitude holds.there is greater consultation on covert activities.
when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped.they get off the drawing boards.
when such hare-brained schemes are scrapped before they get off the drawing boards.risky but well-planned secret operations can be undertaken without fear that a panicky Congress will balk.
the government faces a daunting job of rebuilding confidence in its policies.the air clears from last week's storm of resignations and reshufflings.
The prime minister and her new chancellor of the exchequer, the untested John Major, need to haul the country through something like a recession to bring down inflation and set the economy moving again..Mrs. Thatcher has to come to terms with European economic integration, beginning with the European Monetary System, which Britain is committed to joining fully someday.the government has to convince a rattled financial community -- and voters -- it is proceeding coherently toward its goals.
It sounds like the work of a decade.the deadline is late 1991, when Mrs. Thatcher is expected to call another national election.
supporters wonder if her steely, autocratic ways are the right formula today.Mrs. Thatcher has pulled through other crises.
Mr. Lawson quit in exasperation.Sir Alan Walters, the adviser, announced his resignation within an hour.
Economists have been anticipating a slump for months.it will be deeper and longer than they had thought.
A mild slowdown probably would have run its course by early 1991.the grueling downturn now expected could stretch into 1992.
Recovery could be hampered.Britain's major trading partners in Europe cool off as expected in late 1990 and 1991.
she would prefer doing so in late 1991.Mrs. Thatcher doesn't need to call an election until June 1992.
she will be very vulnerable.the economy shows no sign of turning around in about year's time.
Britain would join.its inflation rate fell and the EC liberalized capital movements.
once its inflation rate fell.the EC liberalized capital movements.
and responding in kind.the Frankfurt authorities move interest rates.
many harbor hopes last week's debacle will prompt change.Conservatives rally around Mrs. Thatcher during the crisis.
we know.The new one we purchase in.hopes it will do,.Despite every wonder that's.stated,.Means more speed, more.graphics, more memory,.too,.But also more quickly out-.dated.we.queasily start.The search for replacements.
I know when dividends are.due;.When bonds should be retired.what gets by me every.time.Is has the milk expired.
Wives May Not Benefit.Men Do Chores.
they tend to substitute for chores done by the kids rather than by the wife.HUSBANDS take on more housework.
Not unexpectedly, wives, whether working or non-working, did by far the most -- about 80% of the shopping, laundry and cooking, and about two-thirds of housecleaning, washing dishes, child care and family paper work..Only for yardwork and home maintenance did women do less than half.the researchers found that while children's household tasks eased the mother's burden appreciably, the husband's helping hand "appears to lighten the children's load almost on a one-for-one basis and to reduce the wife's responsibility only modestly.
that the husband's helping hand "appears to lighten the children's load almost on a one-for-one basis and to reduce the wife's responsibility only modestly.children's household tasks eased the mother's burden appreciably.
In these families, husbands took on 80% more chores than in couples with only grammar school education.the kids with highly educated parents did 68% less housework than those in less-educated families.
on how much property people may own or how much income they may keep.they want welfare help on medical bills.
that anywhere from one-fourth to one-half of all elderly long-term care patients are obliged to spend themselves into poverty.qualifying for Medicaid assistance.
that anywhere from one-fourth to one-half of all elderly long-term care patients are obliged to spend themselves into poverty before qualifying for Medicaid assistance.that "a surprisingly small proportion" -- only about 10% -- of residents start out as private payers but "spend down" to Medicaid levels in a single nursing home stay before they die or are discharged.
but "spend down" to Medicaid levels in a single nursing home stay.they die or are discharged.
(Another one-third are already on Medicaid a considerably higher proportion than the analysts anticipated.).they enter the nursing homes.
that "a surprisingly small proportion" -- only about 10% -- of residents start out as private payers but "spend down" to Medicaid levels in a single nursing home stay before they die or are discharged.a remarkably high percentage -- over half -- are private payers throughout their stay, even a fairly lengthy one.
About one-third pay out of their own pockets.the rest are covered throughout by Medicare, private insurers or the Veterans Administration.
while the rest are covered throughout by Medicare, private insurers or the Veterans Administration.The Brookings and Urban Institute authors caution that most nursing home stays are of comparatively short duration, and reaching the Medicaid level is more likely with an unusually long stay or repeated stays.
that most nursing home stays are of comparatively short duration.reaching the Medicaid level is more likely with an unusually long stay or repeated stays.
that most nursing home stays are of comparatively short duration, and reaching the Medicaid level is more likely with an unusually long stay or repeated stays.those who manage to pay their own way often do so only by selling their homes, using up life savings or drawing heavily on children and other relatives.
that the Reagan years would produce a staunchly conservative younger generation.the youngest adults somewhat more pro-Reagan and pro-Republican than other adults.
the youngest adults indeed somewhat more pro-Reagan and pro-Republican than other adults.this "does not translate into support for conservatism in general or into conservative positions on feminist and civil rights issues.
that men and women in the 18 to 24 age bracket are considerably more liberal on race and gender than were the 18 to 24 year olds in NORC's polling in the early 1970s and early 1980s.They were as liberal or more liberal than any other age group in the 1986 through 1989 surveys.
Answers to a dozen questions in the 1986, 1987, 1988 and 1989 national surveys reveal that men and women in the 18 to 24 age bracket are considerably more liberal on race and gender than were the 18 to 24 year olds in NORC's polling in the early 1970s and early 1980s.66% of the 18 to 24 year olds in the four latest surveys favored an "open housing" law prohibiting homeowners from refusing on racial grounds to sell to prospective buyers..That compares with 58% of the similar age group in the 1980 through 1982 surveys and 55% in the 1972 through 1975 surveys.
He had been summoned to the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party.he finished his lunch at the Savoy Hotel, an unlikely prelude to a bureaucratic brow-beating.
that he was taking my butt to the Central Committee.they can . . ." whack, whack, whack his hand made vigorous spanking gestures on his left palm.
I told my driver," he said, "that he was taking my butt to the Central Committee so they can . . ." whack, whack, whack his hand made vigorous spanking gestures on his left palm. "They feel the need from time to time to `educate' me.And indeed, as he reported, that was the import of the meeting.
We're standing in gasoline.don't smoke.
U.S. and northern European diplomats confirm Mr. Korotich's assessment that glasnost is in no immediate danger.a very high-ranking Soviet official told an American official at a diplomatic dinner that no change in the policy was contemplated.
it sold 250,000 copies.Mr. Korotich took it over in 1986.
When Mr. Korotich took it over in 1986, it sold 250,000 copies; today it sells 3.4 million.Pravda has retained only 57% of its 1986 readership.
Glasnost has made celebrities of men like Mr. Korotich.as astounding as the changes that have already occurred are, there is a fragility to glasnost.
Censorship isn't a Marxist invention..The czars were no civil libertarians..As late as the 1890s, the Russian government prevented any coverage of famines..It even directed newspapers not to publish anything that might stain the honor of the Turkish sultan's wives.glasnost is not a value woven with steel threads into the fabric of Russian society.
I'd be destroying myself," replies Mr. Korotich.who asks, "What would that accomplish.
His answer reveals his vulnerability.it draws the line that Soviet society must cross to enter the normal dialogue of Western culture.
A state trial judge in Illinois gave preliminary approval to a proposed settlement of a suit against a Bank of New York Co. unit, Irving Trust Co., over the interest rates on Irving's former One Wall Street Account money-market deposit accounts.Judge Albert Green, in Cook County Circuit Court in Chicago recognized the suit.
that the Fed would first give a green light to the economy by making credit readily available.and turn on the red and bring growth to a screeching halt.
that the Fed would first give a green light to the economy by making credit readily available and then turn on the red and bring growth to a screeching halt.under Alan Greenspan that has changed.
A supremely cautious man, the Fed chairman is forever blinking yellow.his caution has become legendary within the government.
he often concludes that more data are needed.thoroughly digesting reams of information.
After thoroughly digesting reams of information, he often concludes that more data are needed.when he finally decides to act, his movements sometimes seem excrutiatingly small.
and his movements sometimes seem excrutiatingly small.he finally decides to act.
Some Bush administration officials urged Mr. Greenspan to make an immediate public announcement of his plans to provide ample credit to the markets.he refused, claiming that he wanted to see what happened Monday morning before making any public statement.
to see what happened Monday morning.making any public statement.
But he refused, claiming that he wanted to see what happened Monday morning before making any public statement.Mr. Greenspan's decision to keep quiet prompted a near-mutiny within the Fed's ranks.
The statement angered Chairman Greenspan.it was greeted with applause by the Bush administration and the financial markets.
A "senior Fed official" spoke on Saturday after the market swoon to both the Washington Post and the New York Times, saying the Fed was prepared to provide as much credit as the markets needed.while the mutinous Fed member hasn't gone public, some Fed governors, most notably Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson, are known to have disagreed with the chairman's decision to remain silent.
And some Fed governors, most notably Vice Chairman Manuel Johnson, are known to have disagreed with the chairman's decision to remain silent.the mutinous Fed member hasn't gone public.
whether Mr. Greenspan "made a statement himself.whether that was a newspaper report.
A surprisingly small amount of reserves was added to the banking system.by the end of that week, the key federal funds interest rate, which is largely controlled by the Fed, had settled at 8.75%, barely changed from the level of just under 9% that prevailed the previous week.
Those concerns aren't expressed in public.the administration and the Fed have been going out of their way in the past two weeks to dispel any impression that they are at odds.
In fact, the administration and the Fed have been going out of their way in the past two weeks to dispel any impression that they are at odds.the split is there.
Factory payrolls and production fell in September.the auto industry and housing are in a severe crunch.
The economy is showing signs of weakness, particularly among manufacturers.Mr. Greenspan remains reluctant to loosen policy.
But Mr. Greenspan remains reluctant to loosen policy.he faces a phalanx of presidents of regional Fed banks who oppose credit easing.
partly because he faces a phalanx of presidents of regional Fed banks who oppose credit easing.the chairman has a wary eye aimed a year or two down the road.
Inflation may be stable at the moment.if the Fed eases too soon prices may begin to accelerate again next year.
But prices may begin to accelerate again next year.the Fed eases too soon.
But if the Fed eases too soon prices may begin to accelerate again next year.if the Fed holds tight, it may be able gradually to reduce inflation.
Moreover it may be able gradually to reduce inflation.the Fed holds tight.
We've gotten through two stock market crashes.we've gone through an election without any major problems.
So far, Mr. Greenspan's cautious approach to policy has served both him and the nation well.such caution is no guarantee against mistakes.
Chairman Greenspan could well become an open target.that happens.
such proposals could gain strong momentum.the economy turns down.
of which ECI will sell 990,000.co-founders will sell 110,000 shares.
In an age of specialization, the federal judiciary is one of the last bastions of the generalist.even on the federal bench, specialization is creeping in.
But even on the federal bench, specialization is creeping in.it has become a subject of sharp controversy on the newest federal appeals court.
The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit was created in 1982 to serve, among other things, as the court of last resort for most patent disputes.patent cases moved through the court system to one of the 12 circuit appeals courts.
Some patent lawyers had hoped that such a specialty court would be filled with experts in the field.the Reagan administration thought otherwise, and so may the Bush administration.
But the Reagan administration thought otherwise.so may the Bush administration.
Three seats currently are vacant.three others are likely to be filled within a few years.
Three seats currently are vacant and three others are likely to be filled within a few years.patent lawyers and research-based industries are making a new push for specialists to be added to the court.
We do not feel that seats are reserved (for patent lawyers).we will take it into consideration.
who served at the claims court trial level.he was appointed to the Federal Circuit two years ago.
The Justice Department's view is shared by other lawyers and at least one member of the court, Judge H. Robert Mayer, a former civil litigator who served at the claims court trial level before he was appointed to the Federal Circuit two years ago.some lawyers point to Eli Lilly & Co. vs..Medtronic, Inc., the patent infringement case the Supreme Court this month agreed to review, as an example of poor legal reasoning by judges who lack patent litigation experience.
the decision will have billion-dollar consequences for the manufacturers of medical devices, color and food additives and all other non-drug products that required Food & Drug Administration approval.the Supreme Court holds in Medtronic's favor.
Lisa Raines, a lawyer and director of government relations for the Industrial Biotechnical Association, contends that a judge well-versed in patent law and the concerns of research-based industries would have ruled otherwise.Judge Newman, a former patent lawyer, wrote in her dissent when the court denied a motion for a rehearing of the case by the full court, "The panel's judicial legislation has affected an important high-technological industry, without regard to the consequences for research and innovation or the public interest.
And Judge Newman, a former patent lawyer, wrote in her dissent The panel's judicial legislation has affected an important high-technological industry, without regard to the consequences for research and innovation or the public interest.the court denied a motion for a rehearing of the case by the full court.
And Judge Newman, a former patent lawyer, wrote in her dissent The panel's judicial legislation has affected an important high-technological industry, without regard to the consequences for research and innovation or the public interest.the court denied a motion for a rehearing of the case by the full court.
who was derided as a "tool-and-die man.GE brought him in to clean up Kidder in 1987.
By the end of this year, 63-year-old Chairman Silas Cathcart -- the former chairman of Illinois Tool Works who was derided as a "tool-and-die man" when GE brought him in to clean up Kidder in 1987 -- retires to his Lake Forest, Ill., home.that means 42-year-old Michael Carpenter, president and chief executive since January, will for the first time take complete control of Kidder and try to make good on some grandiose plans.
I'd like to see (Kidder) succeed.they have to attract good senior bankers who can bring in the business from day one.
Its 1,400-member brokerage operation reported an estimated $5 million loss last year.Kidder expects it to turn a profit this year.
Its 1,400-member brokerage operation reported an estimated $5 million loss last year.Kidder is a minor player in just about every business it does except computer-driven program trading.
In fact, Kidder is a minor player in just about every business it does except computer-driven program trading; in that controversial business, only Morgan Stanley & Co. rivals Kidder.even that niche is under attack, as several Wall Street firms pulled back from program trading last week under pressure from big investors.
But even that niche is under attack.several Wall Street firms pulled back from program trading last week under pressure from big investors.
The firm's brokerage force has been trimmed.its mergers-and-acquisitions staff increased to a record 55 people.
that Kidder will finally tap the resources of GE.he assumes full control.
One of GE's goals was to take advantage of "syngeries" between Kidder and General Electric Capital Corp., GE's corporate-finance unit, which has $42 billion in assets.it bought 80% of Kidder in 1986.
So far, instead of teaming up, GE Capital staffers and Kidder investment bankers have bickered.We've really started to exploit the synergy between GE Capital and Kidder Peabody.
The units have worked on 37 investment banking deals this year.not all of them have panned out.
It's been a steadily improving relationship.without many actual deals to show off, Kidder is left to stress that it finally has "a team" in place, and that everyone works harder.
that it finally has "a team" in place.that everyone works harder.
that on weekends Mr. Newquist "often gets value-added ideas.flying his single-engine Cessna Centurion on the way to Nantucket.
that every CEO recognizes as a viable alternative.considering a merger deal.
much closer to the clientele of Goldman, Sachs & Co. than a serve-the-world firm like Merrill Lynch or Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.that these types of investors are "sophisticated" enough not to complain about Kidder's aggressive use of program trading.
As part of the upscale push, Kidder is putting brokers through a 20-week training course, turning them into "investment counselors" with knowledge of corporate finance.Theoretically, the brokers will be able to funnel "leads" on corporate finance opportunities to Kidder's investment bankers.
As part of the upscale push, Kidder is putting brokers through a 20-week training course, turning them into "investment counselors" with knowledge of corporate finance.Theoretically, the brokers will be able to funnel "leads" on corporate finance opportunities to Kidder's investment bankers.
Theoretically, the brokers will then be able to funnel "leads" on corporate finance opportunities to Kidder's investment bankers.skeptics caution that this kind of cross-pollination between brokers and investment bankers looks great on paper, but doesn't always happen.
Kidder competitors aren't outwardly hostile to the firm.competitors say that Kidder's hiring binge involving executive-level staffers, some with multiple-year contract guarantees, could backfire unless there are results.
that Kidder's hiring binge involving executive-level staffers, some with multiple-year contract guarantees, could backfire.there are results.
Mr. Cathcart is credited with bringing some basic budgeting and planning discipline to traditionally free-wheeling Kidder.He improved the firm's compliance procedures for trading.
Smiling broadly.he talks about Mr. Carpenter.
In coming years Kidder is "gonna hum.We're ready to implement at this point.
the contract was signed Wednesday in Tokyo with USI Far East officials.Contract details haven't been made public.
At an estimated $360 million, the project would represent the single largest foreign investment in the Philippines.President Corazon Aquino took office in February 1986.
At an estimated $360 million, the project would represent the single largest foreign investment in the Philippines since President Corazon Aquino took office in February 1986.It is considered critical to the country's efforts to both attract other investment from Taiwan and raise heavy industry capabilities.
The project has been in and out of the pipeline for more than a decade.workers can't break ground until legal maneuvers to block the complex are resolved, moves which caused the signing to remain questionable up to the last moment.
However, workers can't break ground.legal maneuvers to block the complex are resolved, moves which caused the signing to remain questionable up to the last moment.
The country's Supreme Court dismissed the suit.Mr. Garcia late last month filed for a reconsideration.
a member of the Philippines' House of Representatives has sued to stop the plant.President Aquino has yet to sign into law a bill removing a stiff 48% tax on naphtha, the principal raw material to be used in the cracker.
In addition, President Aquino has yet to sign into law a bill removing a stiff 48% tax on naphtha, the principal raw material to be used in the cracker.at a news conference Thursday, Mrs. Aquino backed the project and said her government was attempting to soothe the feelings of residents at the original site, adjacent to the government's major petroleum refinery in Bataan province.
We have tried our best to tell the people in Bataan that maybe this time it will not go to them.certainly we will do our best to encourage other investors to go to their province.
The project appeared to be on the rocks earlier this month when the other major partner in the project, China General Plastics Corp., backed out.that USI Far East is confident other investors will take up the slack.
Three new issues begin trading on the New York Stock Exchange today.one began trading on the Nasdaq/National Market System last week.
On the Big Board, Crawford & Co., Atlanta, (CFD) begins trading today.beginning trading today on the Big Board are El Paso Refinery Limited Partnership, El Paso, Texas, (ELP) and Franklin Multi-Income Trust, San Mateo, Calif., (FMI).
it's far more than the budgetary gimmick it may seem at first glance.it's a device that could send shock waves through the president's entire relationship with Democrats and Republicans alike in Congress, fundamentally enhance the power of the presidency and transform the way the government does its business.
it would set off a political earthquake.that may sound like an arcane maneuver of little interest outside Washington.
White House aides know it's a step that can't be taken lightly.for that reason, the president may back down from launching a test case this year.
They prefer to put off the line-item veto until at least next year.Mr. Bush and some other aides are strongly drawn to the idea of trying out a line-item veto.
Those bills can't easily be vetoed in their entirety.they often are needed to keep the government operating.
that Mr. Bush doesn't need to wait for a law giving him the veto.the power already is implicit in the Constitution.
and shall be approved by him or . . . disapproved by him.the same shall take effect.
that such a move would be immediately challenged in court.that it would quickly make its way to the Supreme Court to be ultimately resolved.
It's a major issue.they wouldn't want to leave it at a lower level.
It's a major issue.they wouldn't want to leave it at a lower level.
the president could call and declare that he would single-handedly kill the BART funds unless the congressman "shapes up" on the foreign-policy issue.a president had a line-item veto and wanted to force him to support a controversial foreign-policy initiative.
that he would single-handedly kill the BART funds.the congressman "shapes up" on the foreign-policy issue.
Proponents maintain that a president would choose to use a line-item veto more judiciously than that.there may be another problem with the device: Despite all the political angst it would cause, it mightn't be effective in cutting the deficit.
Governors have found that they have to use the device sparingly to maintain political comity.it isn't even clear that some pork-barrel projects can be hit with a line-item veto because they tend to be listed in informal conference reports accompanying spending bills rather than in the official bills themselves.
And it isn't even clear that some pork-barrel projects can be hit with a line-item veto.they tend to be listed in informal conference reports accompanying spending bills rather than in the official bills themselves.
Despite all the political angst it would cause, it mightn't be effective in cutting the deficit.that the veto would have what Mr. Glazier calls an important "chilling effect" on all manner of appropriations bills.
putting many spending projects into legislation in the first place for fear of the embarrassment.of having them singled out for a line-item veto.
Republicans have as much interest as Democrats in "the way the system works.although a majority of Republican lawmakers favor a line-item veto, some, ranging from liberal Oregon Sen. Mark Hatfield to conservative Rep. Edwards are opposed.
Indeed some are opposed.a majority of Republican lawmakers favor a line-item veto.
pushing for a line-item veto now.Conservatives may regret it.
and shall be approved by him, or being disapproved by him, shall be repassed by two-thirds of the Senate and House of Representatives, according to the rules and limitations prescribed in the case of a bill.the same shall take effect.
The oat-bran craze has cost the world's largest cereal maker market share..The company's president quit suddenly.now Kellogg is indefinitely suspending work on what was to be a $1 billion cereal plant.
The company said it was delaying construction because of current market conditions.the Memphis, Tenn., facility wasn't to begin turning out product until 1993, so the decision may reveal a more pessimistic long-term outlook as well.
But the Memphis, Tenn., facility wasn't to begin turning out product until 1993.the decision may reveal a more pessimistic long-term outlook as well.
Kellogg's current share is believed to be slightly under 40%.General Mills' share is about 27%.
Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg's corn-based lines.they are made of oats.
he wouldn't be surprised.over the next two years or so, General Mills' share increased to 30% or more.
construction wouldn't resume.market conditions warrant it.
Kellogg indicated that it has room to grow without adding facilities.General Mills finds itself constrained from boosting sales further because its plants are operating at capacity.
General Mills, meanwhile, finds itself constrained from boosting sales further.its plants are operating at capacity.
we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan.we regain our leadership level where we have been.
As we regain our leadership level where we have been.as we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity.
and we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan.we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity.
The new facility was to have been the world's most advanced cereal manufacturing plant, and Kellogg's largest construction project.in recent weeks, construction-industry sources reported that early preparation work was slowing at the 185-acre site.
that the project was in trouble.that the company's plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic.
that the project was in trouble.that the company's plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic.
Mr. LaMothe, Kellogg's chairman and chief executive officer, forecast an earnings increase for the full year.he called current market conditions "highly competitive.
the exchanges aren't fully prepared to go their separate ways.the split has long been expected.
The finance minister's order wasn't sparked by a single event and doesn't indicate a souring in relations between the neighboring countries.the two closely linked exchanges have been drifting apart for some years, with a nearly five-year-old moratorium on new dual listings, separate and different listing requirements, differing trading and settlement guidelines and diverging national-policy aims.
Imports rose 11% to 18.443 trillion lire in September from a year earlier.exports rose 17% to 16.436 trillion lire.
In the nine months, imports rose 20% to 155.039 trillion lire.exports grew 18% to 140.106 trillion lire.
Import values are calculated on a cost, insurance and freight (c.i.f.) basis.exports are accounted for on a free-on-board (f.o.b.) basis.
Banco Exterior de Espana is seeking to shed its image of a state-owned bank and move into new activities.competition heats up in Spain's crowded bank market.
The government directly owns 51.4%.Factorex, a financial services company, holds 8.42%.
Banco Exterior de Espana is seeking to shed its image of a state-owned bank and move into new activities.that Banco Exterior may have waited too long to diversify from its traditional export-related activities.
Catching up with commercial competitors in retail banking and financial services will be difficult.market conditions turn sour.
Banco Exterior could be a prime partner -- or even a takeover target -- for either a Spanish or foreign bank seeking to increase its market share after 1992.that proves true.
With 700 branches in Spain and 12 banking subsidiaries, five branches and 12 representative offices abroad, the Banco Exterior group has a lot to offer a potential suitor.they aren't interested in a merger.
they aren't interested in a merger.they are working to transform Banco Exterior into an efficient bank by the end of 1992.
Banco Exterior was created in 1929 to provide subsidized credits for Spanish exports.The market for export financing was liberalized in the mid-1980s.
The market for export financing was liberalized in the mid-1980s, however, forcing the bank to face competition..At the same time, many of Spain's traditional export markets in Latin America and other developing areas faced a sharp decline in economic growth.the volume of Banco Exterior's export credit portfolio plunged from 824 billion pesatas ($7.04 billion) as of Dec. 31, 1986, to its current 522 billion pesetas.
As a result, the volume of Banco Exterior's export credit portfolio plunged from 824 billion pesatas ($7.04 billion) as of Dec. 31, 1986, to its current 522 billion pesetas.The other two main pillars of Banco Exterior's traditional business -- wholesale banking and foreign currency trading began to crumble under the weight of heavy competition and changing client needs.
Banco Exterior was run by politicians who lacked either the skills or the will to introduce innovative changes.Mr. Luzon took the helm last November.
Until Mr. Luzon took the helm last November, Banco Exterior was run by politicians who lacked either the skills or the will to introduce innovative changes.Mr. Luzon has moved swiftly to streamline bureaucracy, cut costs, increase capital and build up new areas of business.
the country still has one of the most profitable markets in Europe.Spain has an excess of banks.
The bank is now aggressively marketing retail services at its domestic branches.Expansion plans include acquisitions in growing foreign markets.
it's interested in purchasing banks in Morocco, Portugal and Puerto Rico.the bank's retail activities in Latin America are likely to be cut back.
to create a brokerage house.the four Spanish stock exchanges underwent sweeping changes in July.
The late start may be a handicap for the bank.Spain continues to open up its market to foreign competition.
The late start may be a handicap for the bank as Spain continues to open up its market to foreign competition.Mr. Luzon contends that the experienced team he brought with him from Banco Bilbao Vizcaya, where he was formerly director general, will whip the bank's capital market division into shape by the end of 1992.
that the experienced team he brought with him from Banco Bilbao Vizcaya will whip the bank's capital market division into shape by the end of 1992.it'll use its international network to channel investment from London, Frankfurt, Zurich and Paris into the Spanish stock exchanges.
He intends to add to the litigation staff.Mr. Pearce has encouraged his staff to work more closely with GM's technical staffs to help prevent future litigation.
GM lawyers have been working with technicians to develop more uniform welding procedures -- the way a vehicle is welded has a lot to do with its durability.The lawyers monitor suits to identify specific automobile parts that cause the biggest legal problems.
The Manhattan U.S. attorney's office stressed criminal cases from 1980 to 1987, averaging 43 for every 100,000 adults.the New Jersey U.S. attorney averaged 16.
with embezzling more than $100 million from that country.and fraudulently concealing much of the money through purchases of prime real estate in Manhattan.
The U.S. attorney's office, in documents it filed in response, said Mrs. Marcos was making the "fanciful -- and factually unsupported -- claim that she was kidnapped into this country" in order to obtain classified material in the case.The office said Mrs. Marcos and her husband weren't brought to the U.S. against their will after Mr. Marcos was ousted as president.
Mrs. Marcos and her husband weren't brought to the U.S. against their will.Mr. Marcos was ousted as president.
they were in this country at the invitation of President Reagan.that they were enjoying the hospitality of the U.S.
that the federal court lacks jurisdiction in the case.she was taken to the U.S. against her wishes.
A federal judge in Manhattan threw out the indictment, finding that the seven-year delay violated the defendant's constitutional right to a speedy trial.The appeals court said the judge didn't adequately consider whether the delay would actually hurt the chances of a fair trial.
to give the bar's voluntary program three years to prove its effectiveness.considering mandatory pro bono.
to "just say no.auto makers pressure them to stockpile cars on their lots.
who has been feuding with the Big Three.he took office earlier this year.
U.S. car dealers had an average of 59 days' supply of cars in their lots at the end of September.dealers should slash stocks to between 15 and 30 days to reduce the costs of financing inventory.
It "is going to sound neat to the dealer.his 15-day car supply doesn't include the bright red one that the lady wants to buy and she goes up the street to buy one.
when his 15-day car supply doesn't include the bright red one that the lady wants to buy.she goes up the street to buy one.
when his 15-day car supply doesn't include the bright red one that the lady wants to buy.she goes up the street to buy one.
A grand jury has been investigating whether officials at Southern Co. conspired to cover up their accounting for spare parts to evade federal income taxes.The grand jury has been investigating whether Gulf Power executives violated the federal Utility Holding Company Act.
Officials at Gulf Power couldn't be reached for comment.prosecutors declined to comment.
the company is prepared to defend its tax and acccounting practices if any charges are brought against it.Southern Co. has been reluctant to discuss the grand jury investigations.
to defend its tax and acccounting practices.any charges are brought against it.
that an internal audit had disclosed that at least one vendor had used false invoices to fund political causes.the political contributions had been made more than five years ago.
it reached an agreement in principle with International Business Machines Corp. on a systems operations contract calling for IBM to operate First Tennessee's computer and telecommunications functions.under the agreement, First Tennesse would continue to develop the software that creates customer products and sevices.
information will be instantly available to help customers with product decisions and provide them with information about their accounts.personal computers will soon be on the desks of all of our tellers, and customer service and loan representatives.
it reached an agreement in principle with International Business Machines Corp. on a systems operations contract calling for IBM to operate First Tennessee's computer and telecommunications functions.about 120 employees will be affected by the agreement.
that any improvement in the broadest measure of trade, known as the current account, "is likely at best to be very modest.the possibility of deterioration in the current account next year cannot be excluded.
The Treasury's report again took South Korea to task for its exchange-rate policies.The Treasury expressed pleasure with the government of Taiwan.
The Senate, 84-6, voted to increase to $124,000 the ceiling on insured mortgages from the FHA.by voice vote, the Senate voted a pork-barrel bill for domestic military construction.
The agreement was announced by Costa Rican President Oscar Arias Friday.President Bush and other leaders from the Western Hemisphere gathered in the Central American nation for a celebration of democracy.
Costa Rica had been negotiating with the U.S. and other banks for three years.the debt plan was rushed to completion in order to be announced at the meeting.
that it will provide significant reduction in the level of debt and debt service owed by Costa Rica.implemented.
that it will provide significant reduction in the level of debt and debt service owed by Costa Rica.implemented.
The International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are expected to provide approximately $180 million to help support the deal.additional funds are expected from Japan.
The Treasury said it plans to sell $2 billion of 51-day cash-management bills today, raising all new cash.The Treasury announced details of this week's unusual bill auction.
The Treasury also announced details of this week's unusual bill auction.The Treasury said noncompetitive tenders will be considered timely if postmarked no later than Sunday, Oct. 29, and received no later than tomorrow.
noncompetitive tenders will be considered timely.postmarked no later than Sunday, Oct. 29, and received no later than tomorrow.
the sale will add capital and reduce the level of investments in subsidiaries for the thrift holding company.Recently, the boards of both the parent company and the thrift voted to suspend dividends on preferred shares of both companies and convert all preferred into common shares.
The banking operation had a loss of $8.7 million in the second quarter, largely because of problem real-estate loans.the insurance operations earned $884,000.
On the surface, the overall unemployment rate is expected to be little changed from September's 5.3%.the actual head count of non-farm employment payroll jobs is likely to be muddied by the impact of Hurricane Hugo, strikes, and less-than-perfect seasonal adjustments.
The consensus view calls for an overall job gain of 155,000 compared with September's 209,000 increase.the important factory-jobs segment, which last month plunged by 103,000 positions and raised recession fears, is most likely to be skewed by the month's unusual events.
that next month's data isn't likely to be much better.it will be distorted by San Francisco's earthquake.
A reading of less than 50% indicates an economy that is generally contracting.a reading above 50% indicates an economy that's expanding.
that the purchasers' report is valuable.it often presents the first inkling of economic data for the month.
that the purchasers' report is valuable because it often presents the first inkling of economic data for the month.Some people use the purchasers' index as a leading indicator, some use it as a coincident indicator.
Some people use the purchasers' index as a leading indicator, some use it as a coincident indicator.the thing it's supposed to measure -- manufacturing strength -- it missed altogether last month.
it tends to miss the next month, too.it misses one month.
Usually, October "isn't a very interesting month {for retail figures}.school clothes have been bought and people are waiting for December to buy Christmas presents.
because school clothes have been bought.people are waiting for December to buy Christmas presents.
Usually, October "isn't a very interesting month {for retail figures} because school clothes have been bought and people are waiting for December to buy Christmas presents.he will watch the numbers to get an inkling of whether consumers' general buying habits may slack off as much as their auto-buying apparently has.
that are curbing the accuracy of seasonal adjustments built into the employment data.Seasonal factors are expected to have taken their toll on September new-home sales.
Construction spending is believed to have slipped about 0.5% from August levels.economists noted the rate probably will pick up in the months ahead in response to hurricane and earthquake damage.
Factory owners are buying new machinery at a good rate this fall.sluggish sales of new cars and trucks raise questions about fourth-quarter demand from the important automotive industry.
The outlook is positive for the intermediate to long term.September orders for all U.S. producers were slightly above the monthly average for 1988, a good year for the industry.
Aerospace orders are very good.export business is still good.
they haven't been canceled.some automotive programs have been delayed.
September orders for all U.S. producers, in fact, were slightly above the monthly average for 1988, a good year for the industry.sales of North American-made 1990-model cars are running at an annual rate of only six million, down from 7.1 million a year earlier..And truck sales also are off more than 20%.
But sales of North American-made 1990-model cars are running at an annual rate of only six million, down from 7.1 million a year earlier.truck sales also are off more than 20%.
But sales of North American-made 1990-model cars are running at an annual rate of only six million, down from 7.1 million a year earlier.And truck sales are off more than 20%.
to remain cautious about spending.their sales don't pick up.
Auto makers, who began deferring some equipment purchases last spring, can be expected to remain cautious about spending if their sales don't pick up.Machine tool executives are hopeful that recent developments in Eastern Europe will expand markets for U.S.-made machine tools in that region.
There is demand for state-of-the-art machine tools in the Soviet Union and in other Eastern European countries.those nations strive to improve the efficiency of their ailing factories as well as the quality of their goods.
There is demand for state-of-the-art machine tools in the Soviet Union and in other Eastern European countries.those nations strive to improve the efficiency of their ailing factories as well as the quality of their goods.
Machine tool executives are hopeful, however, that recent developments in Eastern Europe will expand markets for U.S.-made machine tools in that region.there's a continuing dispute between machine tool makers and the Defense Department over whether sophisticated U.S. machine tools would increase the Soviet Union's military might.
The Commerce Department says go.the Defense Department says stop.
West German and other foreign producers are likely to grab most of the sales in Eastern Europe.that controversy continues.
Today's presses are large and costly machines.a few orders can produce a high total for one month that doesn't necessarily indicate a trend.
Today's presses are large and costly machines.a few orders can produce a high total for one month that doesn't necessarily indicate a trend.
Shipments have run well ahead of 1988 all year.machine tool builders produce against relatively good backlogs.
That was up 2.8% from a year earlier.orders for the first nine months of 1989 were down 19% from the comparable 1988 period.
they're truly talking mega.they talk mega-issues.
At least 40 companies are coming to the capital market to raise $6 billion, an amount never thought possible in India.the mega-issues are raising megaquestions about the rapidly evolving Indian capital market.
whether there is enough money to fund the new issues without depressing stock trading.in the relatively unregulated Indian stock markets, investors frequently don't know what they are getting when they subscribe to an issue.
Moreover, in the relatively unregulated Indian stock markets, investors frequently don't know what they are getting.they subscribe to an issue.
A prospectus in India doesn't always tell a potential investor much..Some of the large amounts are being raised by small firms.once money is raised, investors usually have no way of knowing how it is spent.
In addition investors usually have no way of knowing how it is spent.money is raised.
The Indian stock markets have been on a five-year high, with dips and corrections.Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi started liberalizing industry.
The Indian stock markets have been on a five-year high, with dips and corrections, since Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi started liberalizing industry.the last stock market boom, in 1986, seems small compared with the current rush to market.
This year's biggest issue, $570 million of convertible debentures by engineering company Larsen & Toubro Ltd., is the largest in Indian history.it isn't the only giant issue.
Convertible debentures -- bonds that can later be converted into equity shares -- are the most popular instrument this year.many companies are also selling nonconvertible bonds or equity shares.
Convertible debentures -- bonds that can later be converted into equity shares -- are the most popular instrument this year.though many companies are selling nonconvertible bonds or equity shares.
In the past, the socialist policies of the government strictly limited the size of new steel mills, petrochemical plants, car factories and other industrial concerns to conserve resources and restrict the profits businessmen could make.industry operated out of small, expensive, highly inefficient industrial units.
he ushered in new rules for business.Mr. Gandhi came to power.
companies should export.the output was too great for the domestic market.
India's overregulated businessmen had to be persuaded.they have started to think big.
Some of the projects being funded by the new issues are the first fruits of Mr. Gandhi's policy.they require more capital than the smaller industrial units built in the past.
Some of the projects being funded by the new issues are the first fruits of Mr. Gandhi's policy.they require more capital than the smaller industrial units built in the past.
Mr. Gandhi has called general elections for November.many businessmen fear that he and his Congress (I) Party will lose.
Some companies are raising money in anticipation of a government less predictable than Mr. Gandhi's, and possibly more restrictive.that some of the money raised in the current spate of issues will be used as campaign donations before the elections.
No one admits to anything.India's industrialists have a history of making under-the-table campaign donations.
prices on India's 16 stock exchanges are holding up so far.many investors are selling parts of their portfolios to buy the new issues.
The "markets are headed for growth unheard of and unseen before.with growth come growing pains.
But with growth come growing pains.never has this been clearer on the Indian capital market than now.
Various ministries decided the products businessmen could produce and how much.government-owned banks controlled the financing of projects and monitored whether companies came through on promised plans.
The government has been content with this far-reaching, subtle form of control, exercised on a case-by-case basis with no clear rules or guidelines.now, with large amounts being raised from investors, the government's dawdling on regulation and disclosure requirements has a more dangerous aspect.
The Securities and Exchange Board of India was set up earlier this year, along the lines of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.New Delhi hasn't pushed the legislation to make it operational.
Mr. Dave, its head, acts cheery and patient.he makes no bones about the need to get to work.
the big questions aren't asked of companies coming to market.most investors have to rely on the rumor-happy Indian press.
its new owners frequently raise funds on the local market.Larsen & Toubro hadn't raised money from the public in 38 years.
it isn't always certain how it is used.the money is raised.
Once the money is raised, it isn't always certain how it is used.Larsen & Toubro says it's raising $570 million to use as supplier credit on large engineering jobs.
Unlike other companies, it hasn't pin-pointed specific projects for the funds.even when specific projects are described in prospectuses, the money often is used elsewhere.
the money often is used elsewhere.specific projects are described in prospectuses.
the money often is used elsewhere.specific projects are described in prospectuses.
They're trying to plug the various loopholes.they're totally unprepared for this.
S.A. brewing would make a takeover offer for all of Bell Resources according to the commission.it exercises the option.
Under the accord, Finnair agreed to coordinate flights, marketing and other functions with SAS, the 50%-state-owned airline of Denmark, Norway and Sweden.The pact calls for coordination between Finnair and Switzerland's national carrier, Swissair.
Neither disclosed details pending board meetings next month.Officials hinted that SAS would take a stake of at least 6% in Finnair.
General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. are now going head to head in the markets for shares of Jaguar PLC.GM got early clearance from the Federal Trade Commission to boost its stake in the British luxury car maker.
General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. are now going head to head in the markets for shares of Jaguar PLC.GM got early clearance from the Federal Trade Commission to boost its stake in the British luxury car maker.
Ford got a similar go-ahead earlier in October.that the No. 2 U.S. auto maker had raised its stake to 13.2%, or 24.2 million shares, from 12.4% earlier in the week.
With the golden share as protection, Jaguar officials have rebuffed Ford's overtures.and moved to forge an alliance with GM.
Jaguar officials have indicated they are close to wrapping up a friendly alliance with GM that would preserve Jaguar's independence.no deal has been announced.
Jaguar officials have indicated they are close to wrapping up a friendly alliance with GM that would preserve Jaguar's independence.Ford has said it's willing to bid for all of Jaguar, despite the objections of Jaguar chairman Sir John Egan.
that Ford may try to force the issue by calling for a special shareholder's meeting and urging that the government and Jaguar holders remove the barriers to a full bidding contest before December 1990.a Ford spokeswoman in Dearborn said Friday the company hasn't requested such a meeting yet.
that wouldn't preclude a full Ford bid.the golden share expires.
There's either a minority {stake} package capable of getting Jaguar shareholder approval.there isn't.
{the deal} won't be put forward" to shareholders.there isn't.
Jaguar and GM hope to win Jaguar shareholders approval for the accord partly by structuring it in a way that wouldn't preclude a full Ford bid once the golden share expires.Union sentiment could influence shareholder reaction to a Jaguar-GM accord.
they are going to be in big trouble" with unionists over any Jaguar deal.they try to build it somewhere else {in Europe} besides the U.K.
These are the last words Abbie Hoffman ever uttered, more or less.he killed himself.
These are the last words Abbie Hoffman ever uttered, more or less, before he killed himself.You Are There, sort of.
The segment is soon to be broadcast on the CBS News series "Saturday Night With Connie Chung.further blurring the distinction between fiction and reality in TV news.
Ms. Chung's program is just one of several network shows (and many more in syndication) that rely on the controversial technique of reconstructing events, using actors who are supposed to resemble real people, living and dead.Ms. Chung's is said to be the only network news program in history to employ casting directors.
Broadcasters have a healthy appreciation of the role entertainment values play in captivating an audience.the network now needs to "broaden the horizons of nonfiction television, and that includes some experimentation.
But the network now needs to "broaden the horizons of nonfiction television.that includes some experimentation.
Since its premiere Sept. 16, the show on which Ms. Chung appears has used an actor to portray the Rev. Vernon Johns, a civil-rights leader, and one to play a teenage drug dealer..It has depicted the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over the Scottish town of Lockerbie..On Oct. 21, it did a rendition of the kidnapping and imprisonment of Associated Press correspondent Terry Anderson, who was abducted in March 1985 and is believed to be held in Lebanon..The production had actors playing Mr. Anderson and former hostages David Jacobsen, the Rev. Benjamin Weir and Father Lawrence Jenco.ABC News has branched out into entertainment gimmickry.
Call it a fad.call it the wave of the future.
NBC's re-creations are produced by Cosgrove-Meurer Productions.which makes the successful prime-time NBC Entertainment series "Unsolved Mysteries.
The marriage of news and theater has been consummated nonetheless.not exactly inevitable.
Call it a fad..Or call it the wave of the future.The marriage of news and theater, if not exactly inevitable, has been consummated.
News programs appeal to the networks' cost-conscious corporate parents.they score well in the ratings.
News programs appeal to the networks' cost-conscious corporate parents.they are so much less expensive to produce than an entertainment show is -- somewhere between $400,000 and $500,000 for a one-hour program.
The network deals a lot with unknowns, including Scott Wentworth, who portrayed Mr. Anderson, and Bill Alton as Father Jenco.the network has some big names to contend with, too.
who is paid $1.6 million a year.who recently did a guest shot of her own on the sitcom "Murphy Brown.
That isn't much compared with what Bill Cosby makes, or even Connie Chung for that matter.the money isn't peanuts either, particularly for a news program.
CBS News now hires featured actors beginning at $2,700 a week.CBS News is re-enacting the 1979 Three Mile Island nuclear accident in Middletown, Pa., with something less than a cast of thousands.
They're filming right now at the bank down the street.they want shots of people getting out of cars and kids on skateboards.
Hollywood on the Hudson it isn't.a re-enactment may have the flavor.
Some producers seem tentative about the technique, squeamish even.the results, while not news, aren't exactly theater either, at least not good theater.
So the results, while not news, aren't exactly theater either, at least not good theater.some people do think that acting out scripts isn't worthy of CBS News, which once lent prestige to the network and set standards for the industry.
that one has to wonder if this is the proper direction for a network news division to take.the show is "impressive.
it's no longer news, it's drama.you add dramatizations.
it's no longer news, it's drama.you add dramatizations.
Once you add dramatizations, it's no longer news, it's drama.that has no place on a network news broadcast.
Criticism of the Abbie Hoffman segment is particularly scathing among people who knew and loved the man.they find it distasteful that CBS News is apparently concentrating on Mr. Hoffman's problems as a manic-depressive.
I wanted to be interviewed to get Abbie's story out.maybe talking about the illness will do some good.
he was concerned at first that the script would "misrepresent an astute political mind, one that I admired.that his concerns were allayed.
who had done so much.who was also a manic-depressive.
who had done so much.but who was a manic-depressive.
Dentsu has U.S. subsidiaries.they keep low profiles.
to keep up with its Japanese clients.they grow in the U.S. and Europe.
we won't be able to catch up with demand.we don't do something.
Last year, Dentsu's foreign business accounted for less than 10% of total billings.the company is aiming at 20% in the near future.
So far, it appears cautious about taking the big step.Dentsu has been approached by banks and securities companies a number of times to invest in the troubled British marketing group Saatchi & Saatchi PLC But Dentsu hasn't looked seriously at Saatchi.
Dentsu has been approached by banks and securities companies a number of times to invest in the troubled British marketing group Saatchi & Saatchi PLC.Dentsu hasn't looked seriously at Saatchi.
it is laying the groundwork for international growth.it has no concrete acquisition plans or deadlines.
For the year ended March 31, Dentsu sales rose 19% to $8.9 billion from $7.5 billion.net income jumped 59% to $102 million from $64 million.
Dentsu's billings last year were larger than those of Young & Rubicam, the world's second-largest ad agency, according to a survey by the publication Advertising Age.success overseas in unfamiliar markets could be trickier than for other industries such as manufacturers.
On its own, Dentsu's muscle in Japan may count for little in major foreign markets.seeking non-Japanese clients.
But success overseas in unfamiliar markets could be trickier than for other industries such as manufacturers.an acquisition may prove the necessary course.
Thus, an acquisition may prove the necessary course.Japanese agencies are cautious about expanding abroad because client relationships are different.
But Japanese agencies are cautious about expanding abroad.client relationships are different.
many clients would also be Japanese companies expanding overseas.acquiring a foreign company would expand Japanese advertising agencies' business to foreign clients.
Although acquiring a foreign company would expand Japanese advertising agencies' business to foreign clients.many clients would be Japanese companies expanding overseas.
Although acquiring a foreign company would expand Japanese advertising agencies' business to foreign clients, many clients would also be Japanese companies expanding overseas.the different business system would make it hard for Dentsu to provide these Japanese companies the same kind of services they do in Japan.
The preferred shares will carry a floating annual dividend equal to 72% of the 30-day bankers' acceptance rate until Dec. 31, 1994.the rate will be renegotiated.
that other buyers will be sought by bid or auction.no agreement is reached.
That introduction comes.Compaq Computer Corp., believing it had a lead of three to six months on competitors, introduced the first U.S. notebook computer with such features.
That introduction comes only two weeks after Compaq Computer Corp. introduced the first U.S. notebook computer with such features.Despite the inevitable comparison with Compaq Texas Instruments' new notebook won't be a direct competitor.
Texas Instruments will be selling most of its machines to the industrial market and to value-added resellers and original-equipment manufacturers.Compaq sells its machines to businesses through computer retailers.
Texas Instruments Inc., once a pioneer in portable computer technology, today will make a bid to reassert itself in that business by unveiling three small personal computers.The introductions mark Texas Instruments' plunge back into a technology it has all but ignored for the past several years.
the only portable machines it has introduced since the first part of the decade have been "dumb" terminals with limited on-board processing ability.the Dallas-based computer giant introduced the first portable data terminal in 1971 -- a 38-pound monster -- and the world's first microprocessor-based portable in 1976.
Now that is about to change.Texas Instruments begins marketing two 14-pound laptop PCs with 20 megabyte and 40 megabyte hard drives.
Now that is about to change.Texas Instruments begins marketing two 14-pound laptop PCs with 20 megabyte and 40 megabyte hard drives.
The laptops are not revolutionary.and are tardy in a market first opened by GRiD Systems Corp., now a unit of Tandy Corp., almost two years ago.
The laptops are not revolutionary and, indeed, are tardy in a market first opened by GRiD Systems Corp., now a unit of Tandy Corp., almost two years ago.the notebook, with the more advanced microprocessor and hard disk, is more innovative.
Its keyboard, according to industry consultants, is better than Compaq's.its battery life of two to three hours is shorter.
It doesn't have an internal floppy disk drive.a snap-on drive can be purchased separately.
Shearson's application is the first.the Taiwan Securities and Exchange Commission announced June 21 that it would allow foreign brokerage firms to do business in that country.
Sales increased a more modest 4.8% in the South and 4.4% in the Midwest.sales in the oil-patch state of Texas surged 12.9% and sales in South Carolina jumped 10.6% in the period.
Sales increased a more modest 4.8% in the South and 4.4% in the Midwest.sales in the oil-patch state of Texas surged 12.9% and sales in South Carolina jumped 10.6% in the period.
But sales in the oil-patch state of Texas surged 12.9%.sales in South Carolina jumped 10.6% in the period.
sales of general merchandise in the West for the first seven months of 1989 rose 6.6% above year-earlier levels..Sales increased a more modest 4.8% in the South and 4.4% in the Midwest..But sales in the oil-patch state of Texas surged 12.9% and sales in South Carolina jumped 10.6% in the period.In the Northeast sales declined 0.4% in the period, with sales in New England falling 2.6%.
sales of general merchandise in the West for the first seven months of 1989 rose 6.6% above year-earlier levels..Sales increased a more modest 4.8% in the South and 4.4% in the Midwest..But sales in the oil-patch state of Texas surged 12.9% and sales in South Carolina jumped 10.6% in the period.In the Northeast sales declined 0.4% in the period, with sales in New England falling 2.6%.
The Northern California earthquake and Hurricane Hugo are likely to temporarily damp sales growth in the West and South Carolina.the regional trends would continue through Christmas.
The Christmas quarter is important to retailers.it represents roughly a third of their sales and nearly half of their profits.
In 1987, the West had the slowest sales growth.the South and the Midwest were first and second respectively, according to the council.
that they could see some benefits later on.retailers probably won't ever recover sales lost because of the California quake and Hurricane Hugo.
although retailers probably won't ever recover sales lost because of the California quake and Hurricane Hugo.that they could see some benefits.
Stores such as Sears that sell big-ticket durable goods might actually get a boost.consumers rush to replace items lost in the disasters.
Stores such as Sears that sell big-ticket durable goods might actually get a boost.consumers rush to replace items lost in the disasters.
everyone got concerned that the same thing would happen at our plant.the plant was destroyed.
Newport officials didn't respond Friday to requests to discuss the changes at the company.earlier, Mr. Weekes had said Mr. Hollander wanted to have his own team on the board.
MEDICINE SHOPPE INTERNATIONAL Inc. declared a 3-for-2 stock split, and substantially boosted the dividend payout.The company changed its dividend policy.
that it has the funds to pay the dividend.that it doesn't have the surplus or profit required under Delaware law for payment of the dividend.
Under terms of the stock, the Yukon ESOP can demand that the stock be redeemed for $4,090,000 on Nov. 30.it is legally prohibited from making the redemption.
NBI, a maker of word-processing systems, said it can't predict if any of the preferred stock will be converted.NBI said it has hired Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. as its financial adviser and investment banker to help it restructure financially and improve its balance sheet.
Insurers may see claims resulting from the San Francisco earthquake totaling nearly $1 billion -- far less than the claims they face from Hurricane Hugo.the recent spate of catastrophes should jolt property insurance rates in coming months.
That's.only about 30% of California homes and businesses had earthquake insurance to cover the losses.
The estimated earthquake losses are low compared with the $4 billion in claims that insurers face from Hurricane Hugo.that the combination of the Bay area earthquake, Hugo and last week's explosion at the Phillips Petroleum Co. 's refinery in Pasadena, Texas, will cause property insurance and reinsurance rates to jump.
Insurers buy this insurance protection for themselves by giving up a portion of the premiums they collect on a policy to another firm -- a reinsurance company.which accepts a portion of any losses resulting from this policy.
Insurers buy this insurance protection for themselves by giving up a portion of the premiums they collect on a policy to another firm -- a reinsurance company.which accepts a portion of any losses resulting from this policy.
many insurers exhausted their reinsurance coverage.Hugo hit.
companies scrambled to replace reinsurance coverages again.Lloyd's syndicates turned to the London market excess lines for protection of their own.
insurers who took big losses this fall and had purchased little reinsurance in recent years will be asked to pay some pretty hefty rates.they want to buy reinsurance for 1990.
insurers who took big losses this fall and had purchased little reinsurance in recent years will be asked to pay some pretty hefty rates if they want to buy reinsurance for 1990.companies with few catastrophe losses this year and already big buyers of reinsurance are likely to see their rates remain flat, or perhaps even decline slightly.
Insurers typically retain a small percentage of the risks they underwrite and pass on the rest of the losses.some large insurers, such as State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., don't purchase reinsurance, but fund their own program.
A few years ago, State Farm, the nation's largest home insurer, stopped buying reinsurance.no one carrier could provide all the coverage that it needed and the company found it cheaper to self-reinsure.
because no one carrier could provide all the coverage that it needed.the company found it cheaper to self-reinsure.
it's impossible to get a clear picture of the quake's impact on fourth-quarter earnings.few insurers have announced what amount of losses they expect to see from the earthquake.
Transamerica expects an after-tax charge of less than $3 million against fourth-quarter net; Hartford Insurance Group, a unit of ITT Corp., expects a $15 million or 10 cents after-tax charge.Fireman's Fund Corp. expects a charge of no more than $50 million before taxes and after using its reinsurance.
and Fireman's Fund Corp. expects a charge of no more than $50 million before taxes.and using its reinsurance.
At the same time, shareholders approved the adoption of a rights plan and a super-majority voting approval requirement.They approved the relocation of the company's registered office to Toronto from Vancouver and a name change to NHI Nelson Holdings International Ltd.
The rights plan would be triggered.a person or group acquires 20% or more of the common shares outstanding without making an offer to all shareholders.
that the three investors broke securities laws.they didn't disclose their intentions to acquire a big Rally's stake.
it may seek control of Rally's.The Patterson group may seek control.
it filed suit in U.S. District Court in Delaware against a group led by Burt Sugarman, seeking to block the investors from buying more shares.it formed a committee of three directors, who aren't associated with either the Patterson or Sugarman groups, to analyze the situation.
Specific terms are subject to review and a final agreement with debt holders.the proposed transaction calls for an exchange of the debt for new debentures of lower face value and reduced cash interest.
But the proposed transaction calls for an exchange of the debt for new debentures of lower face value and reduced cash interest.debt holders would be offered an equity position in Leaseway.
Leaseway fulfilled payment requirements of its debt obligations since the leveraged buy-out.our performance since the {buy-out} makes it imperative to implement actions that will further improve our cash flow.
Lawmakers haven't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras.President Bush parried the question at a news conference here Saturday.
only that that's going to change the equation 180 degrees.there's an all-out military offensive.
Lawmakers haven't publicly raised the possibility of renewing military aid to the Contras, and President Bush parried the question at a news conference here Saturday, saying only that "if there's an all-out military offensive, that's going to change the equation 180 degrees.Mr. Ortega's threat over the weekend to end a 19-month cease-fire with the rebels seeking to topple him, effectively elevated the Contras as a policy priority just as they were slipping from the agendas of their most ardent supporters.
But Mr. Ortega's threat over the weekend to end a 19-month cease-fire with the rebels seeking to topple him, effectively elevated the Contras as a policy priority.they were slipping from the agendas of their most ardent supporters.
that he would continue to abide by the cease-fire.the U.S. ends its financial support for the Contras.
it came.Nicaragua is under special international scrutiny in anticipation of its planned February elections.
Outside observers are gathering in Nicaragua to monitor the registration and treatment of opposition candidates.important U.S. lawmakers must decide at the end of November if the Contras are to receive the rest of the $49 million in so-called humanitarian assistance under a bipartisan agreement reached with the Bush administration in March.
Mr. Ortega's threat practically guarantees that the humanitarian aid will be continued.few lawmakers anticipated that the humanitarian aid would be cut off next month.
Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole (R., Kan.) said yesterday on "Meet the Press": "I would hope after his {Mr..Ortega's} act yesterday or the day before, we'd have unanimous support for quick action on remaining humanitarian aid.Sen. Dole said he hoped for unanimous support for a resolution he plans to offer tomorrow denouncing the Nicaraguan leader.
Mr. Ortega's statement provides Contra supporters with the opportunity to press the administration on the issue.renewing military aid had been considered out of the question, rejected by Congress and de-emphasized by the Bush administration.
that they should call for military aid.the {February} election is voided by the Sandinistas.
that congressional Democrats intend to honor the March agreement to give non-lethal support to the Contras through the February elections.that the agreement requires that the Contras not initiate any military action.
Mr. Ortega's threat to breach the cease-fire comes.U.S. officials were acknowledging that the Contras have at times violated it themselves.
Mr. Baker's assistant for inter-American affairs, Bernard Aronson acknowledged: "It's never very clear who starts what.maintaining that the Sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire.
Mr. Baker's assistant for inter-American affairs, Bernard Aronson acknowledged: "It's never very clear who starts what.maintaining that the Sandinistas had also broken the cease-fire.
that the Contras have at times violated it themselves.that the Sandinistas had broken the cease-fire.
that the U.S. has cut off aid to some rebel units.it was determined that those units broke the cease-fire.
that the U.S. has cut off aid to some rebel units.it was determined that those units broke the cease-fire.
In addition to undermining arguments in favor of ending Contra aid.Mr. Ortega's remarks played to the suspicions of some U.S. officials and conservatives outside the government that he is searching for ways to manipulate or void the February elections.
that he isn't responding to the military attacks.he is searching for ways to strengthen his hand prior to the elections.
that he isn't responding to the military attacks.he is searching for ways to strengthen his hand prior to the elections.
it has no current intention to pursue such a possibility.Petrie Stores has considered seeking to acquire the remaining equity of Deb Stores.
Increasing personal spending and capital investment are fueling growth.Rising export sales contributed to strong growth.
Pretax profit is expected to increase 18% to 22 billion yen.net income is expected to rise 53% to 10.5 billion yen.
He said Gulf Canada will likely report an extraordinary gain from the sale in the fourth quarter.he wouldn't offer a specific estimate.
In the period just ended, computers accounted for 44% of total sales.electrical devices made up 23%.
The tender offer will be followed by the sale of all of Erbamont's assets, subject to all of its liabilities, to Montedison.Erbamont will be liquidated.
the transaction is being structured this way.the laws of the Netherlands Antilles don't provide for merger transactions.
it would seek to liquidate the computer-printer maker "as soon as possible.a merger isn't consummated.
which it rejected.the $283.7 million offer was not fully financed.
with the biggest growth coming in sales of foodstuffs such as margarine, coffee and frozen food.Oils and fats did well.
it might once again fall behind its chief New York competitor, the Commodity Exchange.the exchange falters in these moves.
On Friday, the Merc's board announced that it had approved Sabine Pipe Line Co. 's Henry Hub in Erath, La., as the delivery site for its long-awaited natural gas futures contract.It said that it would start trading the contract as soon as the CFTC approved it.
that it would start trading the contract.the CFTC approved it.
and has been executive vice president since March 1988.He held posts of senior vice president of compliance and senior vice president and general counsel.
Only three weeks earlier, the Merc had turned to one of its own executives, 40-year-old R. Patrick Thompson, to replace Rosemary T. McFadden as president.the Comex in July imported a highly regarded outsider, Arnold F. Staloff, as its president.
and is considered a specialist in new financial products.Mr. Thompson isn't bereft of experience with new products.
Our members are eager to begin trading this contract.we expect no difficulty in attracting locals to the natural gas pit.
Federal authorities in New York started investigating exchanges in May.no indictments have been handed down there.
It levied the smallest number of suspensions of traders and fines of the four largest commodity exchanges studied over the past five years.It had both the fewest, and least experienced, investigators per million contracts traded.
that the 1990 business plan calls for having adequate compliance people to ensure that exchange rules are being followed.the natural gas contract boosts volume at the exchange strongly.
to enter trades.they make them.
The GAO has recommended the creation of a system to record trade data.an independent, verifiable audit trail can be established to prevent customer fraud.
The Merc is now cooperating with the Comex in developing such a device to provide such an audit trail.The Chicago exchanges are working on such a device.
In January, the New York Merc signed a letter of intent with the Chicago Merc as a preliminary step to joining their electronic system called Globex.in May, the Chicago Merc said it was looking into creating a common system with the Chicago Board of Trade, and it suspended negotiations with the New York Merc.
But in May, the Chicago Merc said it was looking into creating a common system with the Chicago Board of Trade.it suspended negotiations with the New York Merc.
But in May, the Chicago Merc said it was looking into creating a common system with the Chicago Board of Trade.it suspended negotiations with the New York Merc.
the market could pop up to the $1.22 to $1.25 level without too much difficulty.it won't climb further.
it won't climb further.he expects it to remain in a trading range between $1.10 and $1.25.
that the equity markets will set the tone for the industrial metals this week.traders should keep an eye on Wall Street.
that the equity markets will set the tone for the industrial metals this week.traders should keep an eye on Wall Street.
that talk of strike settlements at producing mines has been fully discounted.to resume the bull trend copper would have to close over $1.19.
He said last week's activity in gold could portend a move to $390 an ounce for the December contract.He said traders should keep an eye on the stock market, because "if the stock market rallies, that could spell trouble for the precious metals.
traders should keep an eye on the stock market.if the stock market rallies, that could spell trouble for the precious metals.
because that could spell trouble for the precious metals.the stock market rallies.
I expect to see some selling.will they kill this one as they have every rally in the recent past" by selling and locking in prices for their production.
In recent weeks, warm and dry weather has sped the Midwest harvest.that is permitting farmers to rebuild the stockpiles that were cut by the 1988 drought.
In recent weeks, warm and dry weather has sped the Midwest harvest.that is permitting farmers to rebuild the stockpiles that were cut by the 1988 drought.
many Midwest grain elevators will probably sell futures contracts today at the Chicago Board of Trade.the weather allowed farmers to work in their fields over the weekend.
If the weather allowed farmers to work in their fields over the weekend.for whether the Soviet Union continues its traditional fall buying of U.S. grain.
There may be some activity in soybean prices this week.investors try to get rid of the contract for November delivery.
to take physical delivery of a contract.preferring to profit from its price swings and then end any obligation to take delivery or make delivery as it nears expiration.
to profit from its price swings.and end any obligation to take delivery or make delivery as it nears expiration.
and then end any obligation to take delivery or make delivery.it nears expiration.
they more than doubled their prices for pulp, a raw material used in all sorts of paper, to $830 a metric ton this past spring from $380 a ton at the start of 1986.the good times rolled.
As the good times rolled they more than doubled their prices for pulp, a raw material used in all sorts of paper, to $830 a metric ton this past spring from $380 a ton at the start of 1986.now the companies are getting into trouble because they undertook a record expansion program while they were raising prices sharply.
But now the companies are getting into trouble.they undertook a record expansion program while they were raising prices sharply.
because they undertook a record expansion program.they were raising prices sharply.
Robert Schneider of Duff & Phelps sees paper-company stock prices falling 10% to 15% in 1990, perhaps 25%.there's a recession.
Paper companies concede that business has been off recently.they attribute much of the weakness to customer inventory reductions.
Last week Mr. Adler lowered his rating from hold to "avoid" on Boise Cascade, Champion International, Great Northern Nekoosa, International Paper, Louisiana Pacific and Weyerhaeuser.Oppenheimer's Mr. Palmero is steering clear of Gaylord Container, Stone Container and Federal Paper Board.
Last week Mr. Adler lowered his rating from hold to "avoid" on Boise Cascade, Champion International, Great Northern Nekoosa, International Paper, Louisiana Pacific and Weyerhaeuser.Oppenheimer's Mr. Palmero is steering clear of Gaylord Container, Stone Container and Federal Paper Board.
that it is better positioned than most companies for the coming overcapacity.its individual mills can make more than one grade of paper.
that markets generally are stable.some risk of further price deterioration exists.
analysts are skeptical of it.it's carrying a lot of debt.
We've gotten our costs down.we're better positioned for any cyclical downturn than we've ever been.
that next year the share prices of some companies may fall at most only 5% to 10%.the stock prices of some paper companies already reflect an expected profit slump.
A company such as Federal Paper Board may be overly discounted and looks "tempting" to him.he isn't yet recommending the shares.
that it is "virtually the sole major paper company not undergoing a major capacity expansion.and should be able to lower long-term debt substantially next year.
the company expects record earnings in 1989.we're still pretty bullish" on 1990.
it will report a write-off of $2.5 million, or seven cents a share, for its fourth quarter ended yesterday.the effective interest rate on the $410 million of total remaining bank debt after the restructuring is 10.66%.
that the anticipated earnings increase is fairly modest.Nissan is spending heavily to bolster its dealership network in Japan and because of currency-exchange fluctuations.
Last year Nissan exported slightly over one million vehicles, and produced 570,000 cars and trucks at its factories in North America, Europe and Australia.by 1992 Nissan will build one million vehicles a year outside Japan, or sufficient to equal exports.
The company said it has agreed to sell the extrusion division for $15 million to R.D. Werner Co., a closely held firm based in Greenville, Pa.The company said it continues to explore all options concerning the possible sale of National Aluminum's 54.5% stake in an aluminum smelter in Hawesville, Ky.
The sale of the extrusion division is subject to audit adjustments for working capital changes through the closing.The agreement provides for potential payments of additional proceeds to National Aluminum over the next two years, depending on the plant's shipping levels.
The municipal bond market is bracing for tough times through the end of the year.it struggles to absorb an oversupply of bonds and two of its best customers turn into sellers.
The municipal bond market is bracing for tough times through the end of the year.it struggles to absorb an oversupply of bonds and two of its best customers turn into sellers.
as it struggles to absorb an oversupply of bonds.two of its best customers turn into sellers.
Commercial banks and property/casualty insurers have been dumping their securities for weeks "Most dealers cannot continue to absorb this supply.yields on long-term muni bonds now stand at about 95% of long-term Treasury yields, the highest such level in more than two years.
Individuals eager for tax-free income drove up bond prices, making state and local government debt one of the best-performing types of fixed-income investments during the period.while analysts say that municipal bonds still offer good value, you wouldn't know it by the way institutional investors are rushing to dump their holdings.
But you wouldn't know it by the way institutional investors are rushing to dump their holdings.analysts say that municipal bonds still offer good value.
that property/casualty firms will sell even more munis.they scramble to raise cash to pay claims related to Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake.
as they scramble to raise cash to pay claims related to Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake.Fundamental factors are at work.
that supply of new issues will continue to rise sharply.demand tapers off.
Some of the recent selling could actually be considered a positive sign.Mutual funds are said to be selling existing municipal bonds to raise cash to buy new issues.
some portfolio managers are assuming that bonds bought now will appreciate in value as the municipal bond market rebounds.municipal bonds yields have risen at a time when interest rates generally have fallen.
that bonds bought now will appreciate in value.the municipal bond market rebounds.
that the mutual funds are selling muni bonds that have a negative convexity -- those that have appreciated in price slowly relative to the decline in interest rates.the market's tone could pick up this week if New York City's $787 million bond offering goes well.
the market's tone could pick up this week.New York City's $787 million bond offering goes well.
The city's economy is growing weaker.expenditures are rising as tax revenue is falling.
The city's economy is growing weaker and expenditures are rising.tax revenue is falling.
The city has issued so much supply recently that some people are getting a little concerned..They'd like to see some other names in their portfolios.investors may be overreacting to the market's problems.
the Treasury to cancel today's three-month and six-month sale and to sell $17 billion of cash management bills.it would sell $2 billion of 51-day cash management bills today.
that the weekly sale of $15.6 billion of three-month and six-month bills will take place today, as usual.the sale will settle tomorrow instead of Thursday.
Treasury bonds fell sharply on confusion about this week's Treasury debt auction and rumors that a major Japanese investor was unloading large amounts of long-term bonds.The market was hurt by rumors that Nippon Kangyo Kakumaru, a Japanese brokerage firm, was unloading some of the 30-year bonds it recently purchased.
that it agreed to sell its Baby Ruth, Butterfinger and Pearson candy businesses to Nestle Foods, a unit of the Swiss-based food concern.The sale includes a manufacturing plant in Franklin Park, Ill.
RJR's subordinated discount debentures of 2001, which traded as low as 45 Friday, finished the day at 46 7/8.Other RJR securities closed higher.
RJR Holdings Capital Corp. 's 14.7% convertible pay-in-kind securities maturing in 2009 closed 1/2 higher at 86 1/2.trading as low as 85 1/4.
The premium the elderly pay for coverage of doctor's bills under Part B of the Medicare health insurance plan will rise to $29 a month in 1990 from $27.90.a second Part B premium to cover the cost of the new program of insurance against catastrophic illness will rise to $4.90 a month from $4, if Congress doesn't change the program.
In addition, a second Part B premium to cover the cost of the new program of insurance against catastrophic illness will rise to $4.90 a month from $4.Congress doesn't change the program.
In addition, a second Part B premium to cover the cost of the new program of insurance against catastrophic illness will rise to $4.90 a month from $4, if Congress doesn't change the program.The House has voted to repeal most of the Catastrophic Coverage Act of 1988 which would end the monthly catastrophic-care premium, as well as an unpopular income surtax paid by about 40% of the wealthier Medicare beneficiaries.
Under a less-sweeping Senate plan, the catastrophic-care monthly premium would continue, rising to $4.90 next year.the surtax would be abolished.
the monthly Part B premium will be $29 next year.the House prevails in its efforts to kill the catastrophic-care plan.
the premium will be $33.90, with the additional $4.90 going to pay for expanded hospital coverage under Part A of Medicare.the Senate plan prevails.
Jim Pattison Industries, a holding company with annual sales of about C$1.9 billion, largely from car dealerships and grocery stores, didn't elaborate on the statement.a company official declined further comment.
Jim Pattison Industries Ltd., one of a group of closely held companies owned by entrepreneur James Pattison, said it "intends to seek control" of 30%-owned Innopac Inc., a Toronto packaging concern.Innopac reported a fourth-quarter loss of about C$2.6 million, or 18 Canadian cents a share, reflecting inventory write-downs.
PROGRAM TRADING is being curbed by more securities firms.big institutional investors are expected to continue the practice.
Bear Stearns, Morgan Stanley and Oppenheimer joined PaineWebber in suspending stock-index arbitrage trading for their own accounts.stock-index funds are expected to continue launching big programs through the market.
The slowdown raises questions about the economy's strength.spending fueled much of the third-quarter GNP growth.
Personal spending rose 0.2% in September, the smallest gain in a year.personal income edged up 0.3%.
Personal spending rose 0.2% in September, the smallest gain in a year.personal income edged up 0.3%.
Factory owners are buying new machinery at a healthy rate this fall.weak car sales raise questions about future demand from the auto sector.
LIN Broadcasting and BellSouth sweetened their plan to merge cellular phone operations, offering LIN holders a special $42-a-share payout.the new pact will force huge debt on the new firm and could still fail to thwart rival suitor McCaw Cellular.
Unisys posted a $648.2 million loss for the third quarter.it moved quickly to take write-offs for various problems and prepare for a turnaround.
Unisys posted a $648.2 million loss for the third quarter.it moved quickly to take write-offs for various problems and prepare for a turnaround.
Unisys posted a $648.2 million loss for the third quarter as it moved quickly to take write-offs for various problems and prepare for a turnaround.some analysts wonder how strong the recovery will be.
Sansui Electric agreed to sell a 51% stake to Polly Peck of Britain for $110 million.the accord doesn't suggest Japan is opening up to more foreign takeovers.
Nashua strengthened its poison-pill plan.announcing a Dutch firm is seeking to buy up to 25% of the New Hampshire copier company.
Thomas Jefferson sold Congress on the idea of the decimal system for currency.saving Americans the headaches of pounds, shillings and pence.
Thomas Jefferson sold Congress on the idea of the decimal system for currency, thus saving Americans the headaches of pounds, shillings and pence.he struck out with the decimal system of metric weights and measures the French had invented.
But he struck out with the decimal system of metric weights and measures the French had invented.Congress opted for the inches, feet and yards the colonists had brought with them.
industry was far ahead.Congress finally passed the Metric Conversion Act in 1975.
it inspired little more than jokes.the law made compliance voluntary.
Today much of U.S. industry, particularly companies manufacturing or selling overseas, have made metrics routine.the public is barely aware.
Today, though the public is barely aware, much of U.S. industry, particularly companies manufacturing or selling overseas, have made metrics routine.General Motors uses metric terms for its automobile bodies and power trains.
General Motors, for example, uses metric terms for its automobile bodies and power trains.In auto advertising items such as wheelbases are still described in inches.
The Pentagon has led the charge.military alliances spread world-wide.
The Pentagon has led the charge.military alliances spread world-wide.
The Pentagon has led the charge.like the auto makers, when dealing with Mr. Everyman the Pentagon sticks to the tried and true.
Still, like the auto makers the Pentagon sticks to the tried and true.dealing with Mr. Everyman.
its field staff signed up the 500 schools in 238 school districts after only eight weeks.company executives now expect to reach their start-up goal of 1,000 schools before the end of this year.
Subscribing schools get the 12-minute daily Channel One news program.Subscribers get the Classroom Channel and the Educator's Channel.
The Educational Network, as Mr. Whittle has named the three programs, has been offered to 1,290 school districts.Whittle continues to negotiate with 919 districts.
Channel One was rejected.students watching the program didn't fare particularly better on a 28-question current events quiz than a control school without the program and school absences were almost unchanged during the period when the program was being aired.
because students watching the program didn't fare particularly better on a 28-question current events quiz than a control school without the program.school absences were almost unchanged during the period when the program was being aired.
The number of correct responses was 45% on the test.school absences didn't change much.
The pilot program was received well (by teachers and students).there wasn't reason enough to sign up.
We even invited the public to stop by and see the program.there wasn't much interest.
in which each company remains independent.working together to market and sell their products.
in which each company remains independent.working together to market and sell their products.
Hewlett-Packard acquired 730,070 common shares from Octel as a result of an Aug. 10, 1988, stock purchase agreement.That accord called for Hewlett-Packard to buy 730,070 Octel shares in the open market within 18 months.
According to the filing, Hewlett-Packard acquired 730,070 common shares from Octel as a result of an Aug. 10, 1988, stock purchase agreement..That accord also called for Hewlett-Packard to buy 730,070 Octel shares in the open market within 18 months.Hewlett-Packard acquired a two-year option to buy an extra 10%, of which half may be sold directly to Hewlett-Packard by Octel.
Following is a weekly listing of unadited net asset values of publicly traded investment fund shares, reported by the companies as of Friday's close.shown is the closing listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
the Dow Jones Industrial Average has lost 194.69 points, or 7%, closing Friday at 2596.72, down 17.01.peaking at 2791.41 on Oct. 9.
The number of issues falling on the New York Stock Exchange each day is eclipsing the number of gainers.the number of stocks hitting new lows far outstrips the number setting new highs.
Twice in two weeks the unraveling of the on-again, off-again UAL buy-out slammed the stock market.why should an iffy $6.79 billion leveraged buy-out deal shake the foundations of the entire stock market.
Opinions vary about how important the UAL deal was to the market's health.analysts generally agree that the market gyrations created as the UAL plan crumbled revealed a fundamental change in investor psychology.
created.the UAL plan crumbled.
it wouldn't have been greeted with anything like the impact it has had over the past two weeks.this had happened a few months ago when the atmosphere was still very positive.
Sure, price action is volatile.that's scary.
Sure, price action is volatile and that's scary.all-in-all stocks are still a good place to be.
The only way you can make it a big deal is to draw linkages that just don't make sense.that investors may have assumed that just because UAL couldn't get financing, no leveraged buy-outs can get financing.
that no leveraged buy-outs can get financing.UAL couldn't get financing.
that the market would collapse if no more LBOs could be done.leveraged buy-outs are the only thing propping up stock prices.
that the market would collapse.no more LBOs could be done.
There may not be as many.the buyers may not get away with some of the things they've done in the past.
There may not be as many and the buyers may not get away with some of the things they've done in the past.deals won't disappear.
not to milk the cash flow.because it's a good fit.
in which somebody is taking over a company.but it's a good fit.
There will still be deals.even without deals the market would remain healthy.
And even without deals the market would remain healthy.that there hasn't been a merger or acquisition among the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1986, yet that average only three weeks ago hit a record high.
that there hasn't been a merger or acquisition among the 30 stocks in the Dow Jones Industrial Average since 1986.that average only three weeks ago hit a record high.
Those stocks are up.their earnings are up and their dividends are up.
because their earnings are up.their dividends are up.
For the long-term investor who picks stocks carefully, the price volatility can provide welcome buying opportunities.short-term players scramble frantically to sell stocks in a matter of minutes.
For the long-term investor who picks stocks carefully, the price volatility can provide welcome buying opportunities.short-term players scramble frantically to sell stocks in a matter of minutes.
Even the volatility created by stock index arbitrage and other computer-driven trading strategies isn't entirely bad, in Mr. Connolly's view.Kidder Peabody's Mr. Jarrett sees some benefits to the stock market's recent drop.
that we got a little pop.somebody came along with a pin -- in this case the UAL deal.
We've run into a market that was beginning to run out of steam and get frothy The balloon had been blown up so big that when somebody came along with a pin -- in this case the UAL deal -- we got a little pop.that at current levels the stock market is comfortably valued, even with the economy obviously slowing.
doesn't mean it's going lower from here.we've got some realism back in the market.
At current levels of economic activity and earnings, stocks are fairly valued.any chance for prices to surge above fair value lies in the speculation that accompanies a vigorous merger and buy-out business, and UAL has obviously put a damper on that.
But any chance for prices to surge above fair value lies in the speculation that accompanies a vigorous merger and buy-out business.UAL has obviously put a damper on that.
there have been some judicial and legislative changes in the merger area.all of this changes the arithmetic of deals.
there have been some judicial and legislative changes in the merger area.all of this changes the arithmetic of deals.
I'm not saying they've stopped altogether.future deals are going to be structured differently and bids probably won't be as high.
but future deals are going to be structured differently.bids probably won't be as high.
But any chance for prices to surge above fair value lies in the speculation that accompanies a vigorous merger and buy-out business, and UAL has obviously put a damper on that.that's not the only problem for stocks.
M&A is getting all the headlines right now.these other things have been building up more gradually.
Third-quarter earnings have been generally disappointing.with economic data showing a clear slowing, the outlook for earnings in the fourth quarter and all of 1990 is getting worse.
There are a lot more downward than upward revisions.it looks like people are questioning corporate profits as a means of support for stock prices.
the economy slips into a recession.this isn't a level that's going to hold.
Stock prices tumbled for a third consecutive day.earnings disappointments, a sluggish economy and a fragile junk bond market continued to weigh on investors.
Stock prices tumbled for a third consecutive day.earnings disappointments, a sluggish economy and a fragile junk bond market continued to weigh on investors.
Oil stocks escaped the brunt of Friday's selling.several were able to post gains, including Chevron.
Both companies declined to comment on the rumors.several industry analysts told the Professional Investor Report they believed it was plausible that Pennzoil may be buying Chevron shares as a prelude to pushing for a restructuring of the company.
Elsewhere in the oil sector, Exxon rallied 7/8 to 45 3/4; Amoco rose 1/8 to 47; Texaco was unchanged at 51 3/4.Atlantic Richfield fell 1 5/8 to 99 1/2.
Hecla Mining rose 5/8 to 14; Battle Mountain Gold climbed 3/4 to 16 3/4; Homestake Mining rose 1 1/8 to 16 7/8; Lac Minerals added 5/8 to 11; Placer Dome went up 7/8 to 16 3/4.ASA Ltd. jumped 3 5/8 to 49 5/8.
The precious metals sector outgained other Dow Jones industry groups by a wide margin for the second consecutive session.Gold mining stocks traded on the American Stock Exchange showed strength.
Echo Bay Mines rose 5/8 to 15 7/8; Pegasus Gold advanced 1 1/2 to 12.Corona Class A gained 1/2 to 7 1/2.
Unisys dropped 3/4 to 16 1/4.posting a third-quarter loss of $4.25 a share, including restructuring charges.
Unisys dropped 3/4 to 16 1/4 after posting a third-quarter loss of $4.25 a share, including restructuring charges.other important technology issues were mixed.
Digital Equipment tacked on 1 1/8 to 89 1/8.Hewlett-Packard fell 3/8 to 49 3/8.
which closed unchanged at 28 3/8.2.7 million shares changed hands.
The company's decision was made.First Hospital failed to obtain financing for its offer.
The company's decision was made.First Hospital failed to obtain financing for its offer.
For several months, officials at the Federal Aviation Administration and the National Transportation Safety Board have suspected that a metallurgical flaw in the disk led to a crack that ultimately caused the tail engine to break apart in flight.investigators could confirm their theory only after the recent retrieval of a big chunk of Flight 232's tail engine from a cornfield near the Sioux City Airport in Iowa.
there wasn't any way to detect the flaw at that time.that the process has since been changed to decrease the chance that such flaws would occur.
that the company has been working with the FAA all along on this issue and "will comply fully with the required inspections.that the recalls will have no impact on GE's engine production.
A spokesman for GE said that the company has been working with the FAA all along on this issue and "will comply fully with the required inspections.But he pointed out that the recalls will have no impact on GE's engine production.
you have much more confidence in predictions for the future.you can use data to reconstruct what happened in the past.
These measurements can indicate temperature changes.the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ as temperatures change.
because the rates of evaporation of these oxygen atoms differ.temperatures change.
that interior regions of Asia would be among the first to heat up in a global warming.they are far from oceans, which moderate temperature changes.
Researchers at Ohio State University and Lanzhou Institute of Glaciology and Geocryology in China have analyzed samples of glacial ice in Tibet and say temperatures there have been significantly higher on average over the past half-century than in any similar period in the past 10,000 years.the ice-core samples aren't definitive proof that the so-called greenhouse effect will lead to further substantial global heating, Mr. Thompson acknowledged.
increased carbon dioxide emissions will cause the Earth to warm up.carbon dioxide prevents heat from escaping into space.
that temperatures should have risen fairly uniformly over the past century, reflecting the increase in carbon dioxide.that's the case.
that temperatures should have risen fairly uniformly over the past century.the Dunde ice-core record shows increasing temperatures from 1900 through the early 1950s, decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s, then higher temperatures again through last year.
decreasing temperatures from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s.higher temperatures again through last year.
Climate varies drastically due to natural causes.ice samples from Peru, Greenland and Antarctica all show substantial signs of warming.
its vice president for manufacturing resigned.its Houston work force has been trimmed by 40 people, or about 15%.
that cuts spending for new installations by 16%.revamping the Pentagon budget to move more than $450 million from foreign bases to home-state projects.
that cuts spending for new installations by 16%.revamping the Pentagon budget to move more than $450 million from foreign bases to home-state projects.
The fiscal 1990 measure builds on a pattern set earlier this year by House and Senate defense authorizing committees.overseas spending is most vulnerable.
and -- at a time of retrenchment for the military and concern about the U.S.'s standing in the world economy -- overseas spending is most vulnerable.Total Pentagon requests for installations in West Germany, Japan, South Korea, the United Kingdom and the Philippines are cut by almost two-thirds.
Total Pentagon requests for installations in West Germany, Japan, South Korea, the United Kingdom and the Philippines, for example, are cut by almost two-thirds.lawmakers added to the military budget for construction in all but a dozen states at home.
that instead of the Pentagon's proposed split of 60-40 between domestic and foreign bases, the reduced funding is distributed by a ratio of approximately 70-30.lawmakers used their positions to garner as much as six times what the Pentagon had requested for their individual states.
their increases above Pentagon requests -- 640% and 430%, respectively -- were much greater because of the influence of Republicans at critical junctures.spending for Iowa and Oregon was far less.
By an 84-6 margin, the Senate approved the bulk of the spending Friday.the bill was then sent back to the House to resolve the question of how to address budget limits on credit allocations for the Federal Housing Administration.
By an 84-6 margin, the Senate approved the bulk of the spending Friday.but the bill was sent back to the House to resolve the question of how to address budget limits on credit allocations for the Federal Housing Administration.
The House Democratic leadership could seek to waive these restrictions.the underlying bill is already under attack for excesses elsewhere.
Appropriations committees have used an assortment of devices to disguise as much as $1 billion in spending.as critics have awakened to these devices, the bill can seem like a wounded caribou trying to make it past ice and wolves to reach safer winter grazing.
and the bill can seem like a wounded caribou trying to make it past ice and wolves to reach safer winter grazing.critics have awakened to these devices.
and the bill can seem like a wounded caribou trying to make it past ice and wolves to reach safer winter grazing.critics have awakened to these devices.
of being transferred to faster-spending areas.the budget scorekeeping is completed.
Much of the excess spending will be pushed into fiscal 1991, and in some cases is temporarily parked in slow-spending accounts in anticipation of being transferred to faster-spending areas after the budget scorekeeping is completed.a House-Senate conference ostensibly increased the National Aeronautics and Space Administration budget for construction of facilities to nearly $592 million, or more than $200 million above what either chamber had previously approved..Part of the increase would provide $90 million toward ensuring construction of a costly solid rocket-motor facility in Mr. Whitten's Mississippi..But as much as $177 million, or nearly 30% of the account, is marked for potential transfers to research, management and flight accounts that are spent out at a faster clip.
Part of the increase would provide $90 million toward ensuring construction of a costly solid rocket-motor facility in Mr. Whitten's Mississippi.as much as $177 million, or nearly 30% of the account, is marked for potential transfers to research, management and flight accounts that are spent out at a faster clip.
House Speaker Thomas Foley won $510,000 for a project in his district in Washington state.$1.3 million, earmarked by Sen. Daniel Inouye, amounts to a business subsidy under the title "Hawaiian sugar mills job retention.
it was agreed instead to take money from HUD to subsidize needed improvements in two settling ponds for the mills.this plan met resistance.
it was agreed instead to take money from HUD to subsidize needed improvements in two settling ponds for the mills.this plan met resistance.
to add language relaxing environmental restrictions on two mills on the Hamakua coast that are threatening to close.it was agreed to take money from HUD to subsidize needed improvements in two settling ponds for the mills according to Mr. Inouye's office.
the same economic factors affected us as affects the black people Mr. Farney writes about.we were white.
I've never forgotten or lost contact with those memories of the 1930s.I've been blessed with academic degrees and some success in the materialistic world.
Following World War II the surplus people were dumped into the mainstream of society with no Social Security, no skills in the workplace, no hope for their future except welfare.today, many of their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren remain on welfare.
Following World War II the surplus people were dumped into the mainstream of society with no Social Security, no skills in the workplace, no hope for their future except welfare.today, many of their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren remain on welfare.
Following World War II, when one family with mechanized equipment could farm crops formerly requiring 20 families, the surplus people were dumped into the mainstream of society with no Social Security, no skills in the workplace, no hope for their future except welfare..And today, many of their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren remain on welfare.the landowners continue receiving generous subsidies that began during New Deal days.
Following World War II, when one family with mechanized equipment could farm crops formerly requiring 20 families, the surplus people were dumped into the mainstream of society with no Social Security, no skills in the workplace, no hope for their future except welfare..And today, many of their children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren remain on welfare.the landowners continue receiving generous subsidies that began during New Deal days.
In the meantime, the landowners continue receiving generous subsidies that began during New Deal days.those who choose not to farm can lease their lands and crop allotments for handsome sums.
Farmers in the Midwest and other areas have suffered.those along the Mississippi continue to prosper with holdings that were built with the sweat of men and women living in economic slavery.
of men and women living in economic slavery.when they were no longer needed, they were turned loose unprepared to build lives of their own.
of men and women living in economic slavery.when they were no longer needed, they were turned loose unprepared to build lives of their own.
And they were turned loose unprepared to build lives of their own.they were no longer needed.
breaking this cycle will be next to impossible.the cycle of poverty along the lower Mississippi goes back so many generations.
Sadly, the cycle appears not as waves but as a downward spiral.the evidence that we have not hit bottom is found in the fact that we are not yet helping ourselves.
the questions continue as fodder for the commissions and committees, for the media and politicians.we refuse to face the tough answers.
Does the Delta deserve government help in attracting industry.the majority of residents, black and white, do not realize racism alienates potential employers.
Does the Delta deserve government help in attracting industry.the majority of residents, black and white, do not realize racism alienates potential employers.
Should we focus on the region's infant-mortality rate.the vocal right-wingers and the school boards, mayors and legislators prohibit schools from teaching the two ways (abstinence or contraceptives) of decreasing teen pregnancy.
Should we focus on the region's infant-mortality rate.the vocal right-wingers and the school boards, mayors and legislators prohibit schools from teaching the two ways (abstinence or contraceptives) of decreasing teen pregnancy.
expansion plans are mentioned at the old company.somebody says, "Aw heck, guys, nobody can do it like Japan or South Korea.
expansion plans are mentioned at the old company.somebody says, "Aw heck, guys, nobody can do it like Japan or South Korea.
For years, we tried to ignore the problem of poverty.now that it has gotten out of hand it's a new crusade for the media and our Democratic Congress.
and it's a new crusade for the media and our Democratic Congress.it has gotten out of hand.
Nobody should have to live in such poor conditions as in "Sugar Ditch.when you travel to Washington, Boston, Chicago or New York, the same problems exist.
but the same problems exist.you travel to Washington, Boston, Chicago or New York.
Many middle-class people would love free food, Medicaid insurance, utilities and rent.maybe I could stay home and have seven children and watch Oprah Winfrey, like Beulah in the article, instead of having one child and working constantly just to stay above water, like so many families in this country.
Many middle-class people would love free food, Medicaid insurance, utilities and rent.maybe I could stay home and have seven children and watch Oprah Winfrey, like Beulah in the article, instead of having one child and working constantly just to stay above water, like so many families in this country.
that it was going to reduce employment in production operations of the group by 8%, or 400 people.during which it lost as many as 400 employees.
A few years ago, Mobil restructured the entire company during an industrywide shakeout.since then U.S. oil production has declined and Mobil wants to focus its oil-finding efforts overseas.
But since then U.S. oil production has declined.Mobil wants to focus its oil-finding efforts overseas.
But since then U.S. oil production has declined.Mobil wants to focus its oil-finding efforts overseas.
During the coming months, layers of management will be peeled away.regional offices will become more autonomous.
Field offices at New Orleans; Houston; Denver; Midland, Tex.; Bakersfield, Calif.; Oklahoma City; and Liberal, Kan., will be maintained.the staffs at some of those locations will be slashed while at others the work force will be increased.
But the staffs at some of those locations will be slashed.at others the work force will be increased.
But the staffs at some of those locations will be slashed while at others the work force will be increased.employment in Denver will be reduced to 105 from 430..But on the West Coast, where profitable oil production is more likely than in the midcontinent region, the Bakersfield, Calif., office staff of 130 will grow by 175 to 305.
For instance, employment in Denver will be reduced to 105 from 430.on the West Coast, where profitable oil production is more likely than in the midcontinent region, the Bakersfield, Calif., office staff of 130 will grow by 175 to 305.
Now, the nationwide average yield on a six-month CD is just under 8%.8.5% is about the best around.
With $150 billion of CDs maturing this month, a lot of people have been scouring the financial landscape for just such an investment.investors looking for alternatives aren't finding it easy.
Yields on most fixed-income securities are lower than several months ago.the stock market's recent gyrations are a painful reminder of the dangers there.
you're not going to find it.you're looking for a significantly higher yield with the same level of risk as a CD.
If you're looking for a significantly higher yield with the same level of risk as a CD, you're not going to find it.There are some alternatives that income-oriented investors should consider.
Short-term municipal bonds, bond funds and tax-deferred annuities are some of the choices.investors may want to look at securities that reduce the risk that CD holders are confronting right now, of having to reinvest the proceeds of maturing short-term certificates at lower rates.
That's.municipal-bond interest is exempt from federal income tax -- and from state and local taxes too, for in-state investors.
These securities get top credit ratings.the issuers have put aside U.S. bonds that will be sold to pay off holders when the municipals are retired.
that will be sold to pay off holders.the municipals are retired.
Buyers can look forward to double-digit annual returns.they are right.
Buyers can look forward to double-digit annual returns if they are right.they will have disappointing returns or even losses if interest rates rise instead.
But they will have disappointing returns or even losses.interest rates rise instead.
if they are right.if interest rates rise.
The price movements get bigger.the maturity of the securities lengthens.
Bond resale prices, and thus fund share prices, move in the opposite direction from rates..The price movements get bigger as the maturity of the securities lengthens.Consider two bond funds from Vanguard Group of Investment Cos. that were both yielding 8.6% on a recent day..The Short Term Bond Fund, with an average maturity of 2 1/2 years, would deliver a total return for one year of about 10.6% if rates drop one percentage point and a one-year return of about 6.6% if rates rise by the same amount..But, in the same circumstances, the returns would be a more extreme 14.6% and 2.6% for the Vanguard Bond Market Fund, with its 12 1/2-year average maturity.
The Short Term Bond Fund, with an average maturity of 2 1/2 years, would deliver a total return for one year of about 10.6% and a one-year return of about 6.6% if rates rise by the same amount.rates drop one percentage point.
The Short Term Bond Fund, with an average maturity of 2 1/2 years, would deliver a total return for one year of about 10.6% if rates drop one percentage point and a one-year return of about 6.6% if rates rise by the same amount.in the same circumstances, the returns would be a more extreme 14.6% and 2.6% for the Vanguard Bond Market Fund, with its 12 1/2-year average maturity.
You get equity-like returns" from bonds.you guess right on rates.
bond fund investors' returns will be about equal to the funds' current yields.interest rates don't change.
Investment gains are compounded without tax consequences.money is withdrawn.
Investment gains are compounded without tax consequences until money is withdrawn.a 10% penalty tax is imposed on withdrawals made before age 59 1/2.
Some current rates exceed those on CDs.a CD-type annuity from North American Co. for Life & Health Insurance, Chicago, offers 8.8% interest for one year or a 9% rate for two years.
Annuities are rarely a good idea at age 35 because of the withdrawal restrictions.at age 55, "they may be a great deal.
to go into money funds.rates are rising.
The conventional wisdom is to go into money funds when rates are rising and shift out at times such as the present, when rates seem headed down.today's highest-yielding money funds may beat CDs over the next year even if rates fall.
Still, today's highest-yielding money funds may beat CDs over the next year.rates fall.
That's.top-yielding funds currently offer yields almost 1 1/2 percentage points above the average CD yield.
the increasing return on the money fund will partly offset the lower-than-expected return from the bond fund.rates unexpectedly rise.
the FDA plans to examine Dr. Toseland's evidence and is considering its own study here.there have been no reports of similar sudden unexplained deaths among diabetics in the U.S.
that the deaths may have occurred.human insulin blunted critical warning signs indicating hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, which can kill diabetics.
that the deaths may have occurred.human insulin blunted critical warning signs indicating hypoglycemia, or low blood sugar, which can kill diabetics.
no evidence of unexpected deaths from hypoglycemia had shown up in a study of 1,500 diabetics that has been under way at NIH for five years.officials conducting the study hadn't been looking for signs of problems related to hypoglycemia unawareness.
The human-based drug starts the blood sugar dropping sooner and drives it down faster.there is enough of a difference to be clinically significant.
that the Pentagon cannot determine priorities.it has no strategy.
We'd do the strategy.then we'd come around and do the budget.
We'd do the strategy.and we'd come around and do the budget.
This won't happen.strategists come down from their ivory tower and learn to work in the real world of limited budgets and uncertain futures.
we identify national goals and the threats to these goals, we shape a strategy to counter these threats, we determine the forces needed to execute the strategy.finally forging the budgets needed to build and maintain the forces.
As it is, we identify national goals and the threats to these goals, we shape a strategy to counter these threats, we determine the forces needed to execute the strategy.before forging the budgets needed to build and maintain the forces.
As it is, we identify national goals and the threats to these goals, we shape a strategy to counter these threats, we determine the forces needed to execute the strategy.before forging the budgets needed to build and maintain the forces.
These procedures consume millions of man-hours of labor and produce tons of paper.each year, their end product -- the Five Year Defense Plan -- promptly melts away.
These procedures consume millions of man-hours of labor and produce tons of paper.each year, their end product -- the Five Year Defense Plan -- promptly melts away.
The Pentagon's strategists produce budgets that simply cannot be executed.they assume a defense strategy depends only on goals and threats.
because they assume a defense strategy depends only on goals and threats.Strategy is about possibilities, not hopes and dreams.
These people have different agendas.as a result the preservation of jobs is becoming the real goal of defense "strategy.
That puts the real strategic decisions in the hands of others: bean counters, budgeteers, and pork-barrelers..These people have different agendas.And the preservation of jobs is becoming the real goal of defense "strategy.
They ought to examine how a range of optimistic to pessimistic budget scenarios would change the defense program.They would develop priorities by identifying the least painful program cuts as they moved from higher to lower budgets.
They ought to examine how a range of optimistic to pessimistic budget scenarios would change the defense program.They would develop priorities by identifying the least painful program cuts as they moved from higher to lower budgets.
by identifying the least painful program cuts.they moved from higher to lower budgets.
They would then develop priorities by identifying the least painful program cuts as they moved from higher to lower budgets.They would identify the best way to add programs, should the budget come in at higher levels.
Our five-year plan contains three accounting devices -- negative money, an above guidance management reserve and optimistic inflation estimates -- which understate the spending the Pentagon has committed itself to by almost $100 billion.The 1990 plan assumes inflation will decline to 1.7% by 1994.
What happens.these increases do not materialize.
This scenario has been the rough position of the U.S. Senate since 1985.it reduces the baseline by $106 billion between 1990 and 1994.
Scenario 1, known as the "Constant Dollar Freeze," reimburses the Pentagon for inflation only -- it slopes upward at 4% per year..This scenario has been the rough position of the U.S. Senate since 1985, and it reduces the baseline by $106 billion between 1990 and 1994..Scenario 3, the "Current Dollar Freeze," has been the approximate position of the House of Representatives for about four years..It freezes the budget at its current level, and forces the Pentagon to eat the effects of inflation until 1994..This reduces the baseline by $229 billion..Scenario 2 extends the recent compromises between the House and the Senate; it splits the difference between Scenarios 1 and 3, by increasing the budget at 2% per year..It reduces the baseline by $169 billion.Scenario 4 reduces the budget by 2% per year for the next five years -- a total reduction of $287 billion.
they would have to sacrifice more and more other programs -- such as carrier battlegroups or army divisions -- as they moved toward lower budget levels.for example, they choose to keep the B-2 Stealth bomber.
This exercise would reveal the true cost of a particular program by forcing the strategists to make hard decisions.If they choose to keep the B-2 Stealth bomber, they would have to sacrifice more and more other programs -- such as carrier battlegroups or army divisions -- as they moved toward lower budget levels.
they would have to sacrifice more and more other programs -- such as carrier battlegroups or army divisions.they moved toward lower budget levels.
that the idea of a strategic review merely resurrects the infamous Zero-Based Budgeting (ZBB) concept of the Carter administration.ZBB did not involve the strategic planners in the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and therefore degenerated into a bean-counting drill driven by budget politics.
But ZBB did not involve the strategic planners in the Joint Chiefs of Staff.and degenerated into a bean-counting drill driven by budget politics.
that even thinking about lower budgets will hurt national security.the door will be opened to opportunistic budget cutting by an irresponsible Congress.
This argument plays well in the atmosphere of gaming and mistrust permeating the Pentagon and Congress.unfortunately, there is some truth to it.
This argument plays well in the atmosphere of gaming and mistrust permeating the Pentagon and Congress, and unfortunately, there is some truth to it.in the end, it must be rejected for logical as well as moral reasons.
that the Pentagon should act irresponsibly.acting responsibly will provoke Congress into acting irresponsibly.
that the Pentagon should deliberately exaggerate its needs in the national interest.that it is justified in committing a crime -- lying to Congress -- because it is morally superior.
in other words, that it is justified in committing a crime.it is morally superior.
we must understand the trade-offs they imply before we make commitments.we want meaningful priorities.
we must understand the trade-offs they imply.we make commitments.
a massive sell-off probably won't occur in the near future.bullish dollar sentiment has fizzled.
weakness in the pound and the yen is expected to offset those factors.Wall Street's tough times and lower U.S. interest rates continue to undermine the dollar.
weakness in the pound and the yen is expected to offset those factors.Wall Street's tough times and lower U.S. interest rates continue to undermine the dollar.
The rise came.traders continued to dump the pound after the sudden resignation Thursday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson.
The rise came.traders continued to dump the pound after the sudden resignation Thursday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson.
The rise came as traders continued to dump the pound after the sudden resignation Thursday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson.once the pound steadied with help from purchases by the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the dollar was dragged down by the stock-market slump that left the Dow Jones Industrial Average with a loss of 17.01 points.
But the dollar was dragged down by the stock-market slump that left the Dow Jones Industrial Average with a loss of 17.01 points.the pound steadied with help from purchases by the Bank of England and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Mr. Scalfaro and others don't see the currency decisively sliding under support at 1.80 marks and 140 yen soon.some analysts say the dollar eventually could test support at 1.75 marks and 135 yen.
to strengthen substantially.there are dollar retreats.
it is in critical condition.the pound has attempted to stabilize.
and hit the week's low of $1.5765.Mr. Lawson resigned from his six-year post because of a policy squabble with other cabinet members.
and hit the week's low of $1.5765.Mr. Lawson resigned from his six-year post because of a policy squabble with other cabinet members.
who Friday expressed a desire for a firm pound and supported the relatively high British interest rates that he said "are working exactly as intended" in reducing inflation.the market remains uneasy about Mr. Major's policy strategy and the prospects for the pound.
it is widely believed that Mr. Lawson's willingness to prop up the pound with interest-rate increases helped stem pound selling in recent weeks.the Bank of England's tight monetary policy has fueled worries that Britain's slowing economy is headed for a recession.
that currency is expected to fall sharply.there are any signs that Mr. Major will be less inclined to use interest-rate boosts to rescue the pound from another plunge.
There's very little upside to sterling.that near-term losses may be small because the selling wave that followed Mr. Major's appointment apparently has run its course.
that near-term losses may be small.the selling wave that followed Mr. Major's appointment apparently has run its course.
There's very little upside to sterling," Mr. Roberts says, but he adds that near-term losses may be small because the selling wave that followed Mr. Major's appointment apparently has run its course.some other analysts have a stormier forecast for the pound, particularly because Britain's inflation is hovering at a relatively lofty annual rate of about 7.6% and the nation is burdened with a struggling government and large current account and trade deficits.
But some other analysts have a stormier forecast for the pound.Britain's inflation is hovering at a relatively lofty annual rate of about 7.6% and the nation is burdened with a struggling government and large current account and trade deficits.
particularly because Britain's inflation is hovering at a relatively lofty annual rate of about 7.6%.the nation is burdened with a struggling government and large current account and trade deficits.
the Bank of England may raise Britain's base lending rate by one percentage point to 16%.the pound falls closer to 2.80 marks.
If the pound falls closer to 2.80 marks, the Bank of England may raise Britain's base lending rate by one percentage point to 16%.such an increase could be viewed by the market as "too little too late.
The dollar has a "natural base of support" around 140 yen.the Japanese currency hasn't been purchased heavily in recent weeks.
to spend lonely hours at home.there is no transportation for someone in a wheelchair.
to be denied employment.you are disabled.
it filed with federal antitrust regulators for clearance to buy more than 50% of the stock of Rally's Inc., a fast-food company based in Louisville, Ky.A second group of three company directors is seeking control of the fast-food chain.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
DPC Acquisition Partners, a hostile suitor for Dataproducts Corp., filed a petition in federal district court in Los Angeles seeking to have its standstill agreement with the computer printer maker declared void.it proceeded with a $10-a-share tender offer for the company.
DPC made a $15-a-share bid for the company in May.Dataproducts management considered the $283.7 million proposal unacceptable.
Dataproducts had sought a buyer for several months.it is now in the midst of a restructuring plan and management says the company is no longer for sale.
but it is now in the midst of a restructuring plan.the company is no longer for sale.
The contract was first proposed more than two years ago.shortly afterward, the colony's markets were hit hard by the October 1987 global stock crash.
The contract was first proposed more than two years ago.but the colony's markets were hit hard by the October 1987 global stock crash.
but shortly afterward, the colony's markets were hit hard by the October 1987 global stock crash.The subsequent drive to reform Hong Kong's markets has embroiled the interest-rate futures contract.
The Securities and Futures Commission, a government watchdog set up after the 1987 crash to try to restore confidence and order to Hong Kong's markets, had been expected to give the contract conditional approval last week.futures-exchange officials still have a way to go before they answer all the remaining detailed questions about the contract.
futures-exchange officials still have a way to go.they answer all the remaining detailed questions about the contract.
The exchange had forecast that the contract would begin trading by December.that it isn't likely to start until the first quarter of next year.
Analysts and financial officials in the British colony consider the new contract essential to the revival of the Hong Kong Futures Exchange, which has never fully recovered from the October 1987 crash.local banks say the new contract is important in helping them offset their Hong Kong-dollar exposure.
it may do much to restore confidence in futures trading in Hong Kong.the contract is as successful as some expect.
Two years ago, the futures exchange was the envy of other would-be futures centers.in the week following the 1987 stock crash, the exchange verged on collapse, and the stock and futures markets in Hong Kong were closed for four days.
But in the week following the 1987 stock crash, the exchange verged on collapse.the stock and futures markets in Hong Kong were closed for four days.
futures trading in Hong Kong was relatively heavy and went smoothly.Asian markets struggled to cope with the uncertainty caused by the Oct. 13 plunge in New York stock prices.
futures trading in Hong Kong was relatively heavy and went smoothly.Asian markets struggled to cope with the uncertainty caused by the Oct. 13 plunge in New York stock prices.
While Asian markets struggled to cope with the uncertainty caused by the Oct. 13 plunge in New York stock prices, futures trading in Hong Kong was relatively heavy and went smoothly.That was the case in the days following the June 4 massacre in Beijing, which caused a sharp drop in Hong Kong stock prices.
those two banks are there.the balance of the banking institutions will be there.
the U.S. and Hong Kong economies don't always move in lock step.the currency is pegged to the U.S. dollar, with a fixed exchange rate of HK$7.8 to the American currency.
Just a few months ago, the three-month Eurodollar rate was around 9.5%.three-month Hibor hit highs above 11%.
Just a few months ago, the three-month Eurodollar rate was around 9.5%.three-month Hibor hit highs above 11%.
The wounds from the 1987 crash haven't yet healed.not all claims against the exchange clearinghouse -- by those who bet the Hang Seng index would fall -- have been settled.
trading in the contract is likely to start slowly.that there may be limits on how much the contract can grow.
that there may be limits on how much the contract can grow.the Hong Kong dollar isn't a widely traded currency.
the contract will be considered a success.it starts trading 500 to 1,000 lots a day.
And Mr. Gilmore cautions that there may be limits on how much the contract can grow because the Hong Kong dollar isn't a widely traded currency.Exchange officials point out that Hibor futures were designed for institutions and corporations, not for the type of small individual investors who were very active in Hang Seng index futures and defaulted in the 1987 crash.
That should help to inspire confidence.many bankers remain nervous, especially as the start-up of the contract continues to be delayed.
But many bankers remain nervous.the start-up of the contract continues to be delayed.
But many bankers remain nervous.the start-up of the contract continues to be delayed.
which rose to 221.61 billion yen in the first half from 200.70 billion yen a year earlier.Pulp, processed and miscellaneous paper sales surged.
Pretax profit is seen at 45.00 billion yen, down from 47.17 billion yen.net income is estimated at 23.500 billion yen, up from 23.031 billion yen.
The company didn't provide an explanation for the softer pretax profit performance.officials couldn't be reached for comment.
Pretax profit was estimated at 23.0 billion yen, down from 25.51 billion yen.net income was estimated at 12 billion yen, up from 11.95 billion yen.
The company declined to estimate the value of the Norwegian holding.Eugene L. Nowak, an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., forecast that the sale will bring in "$200 million or substantially more.
he attaches particular importance to the proposed sale.it suggests that the company is willing to sell oil and gas assets that aren't part of its major strategic strengths.
In 1986, Unocal sold a 7.5% stake in the Veslefrikk field to Deutsche Erdolversorgungs G.m.b..H., a West German oil company, for an undisclosed amount..In 1987, it sold a 2.5% stake in the Veslefrikk field to the Swedish national oil company, resulting in a $7 million after-tax gain.those sales were early in the field's history.
the Veslefrikk field's gross reserves were estimated in 1987 at 229 million barrels.that that estimate currently is being reappraised.
The offering, Series 1989-89, backed by Fannie Mae 9% securities, brings Fannie Mae's 1989 Remic issuance to $33.2 billion and its total Remic volume to $45.3 billion.the program began in April 1987.
World Bank (agency) -- #100 million of 10 7/8% bonds due Aug. 15, 1994, offered at 96.95 to yield 11.71%, via Baring Brothers & Co. Tap on outstanding #100 million issue.issued were 10 billion yen of bonds due Dec. 5, 1994, priced at 101 1/2, with coupon paid in Australian dollars, via LTCB International Ltd.
Interest during first year paid semiannually at 7.51%.interest paid annually at 7.65%.
Also issued were 10 billion yen of bonds due Dec. 5, 1994, priced at 101 1/2, with coupon paid in Australian dollars, via LTCB International Ltd. Interest during first year paid semiannually at 7.51%.The World Bank offered 100 million Swiss francs of 6% bonds due Nov. 16, 1999, priced at 101 1/4 to yield 5.83% via Credit Suisse.
First National Bank of Chicago will act as trustee.the transaction will be supported by an 8% letter of credit issued by Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd., Chicago branch.
the repurchase of as many as 300,000 common shares.market conditions are suitable.
the repurchase of as many as 300,000 common shares.market conditions are suitable.
I have just returned from France.the net exchange rate charged on my Visa account was more favorable than I obtained for traveler's checks in any of the several banks where I converted them.
In a first step, Dresdner Bank will buy 32.99% of BIP for 1,015 French francs ($162) a share, or 528 million francs ($84.7 million).it will buy all shares tendered by shareholders on the Paris Stock Exchange at the same price from today through Nov. 17.
In a first step, Dresdner Bank will buy 32.99% of BIP for 1,015 French francs ($162) a share, or 528 million francs ($84.7 million)..Dresdner Bank said it will also buy all shares tendered by shareholders on the Paris Stock Exchange at the same price from today through Nov. 17.the bank has an option to buy a 30.84% stake in BIP from Societe Generale after Jan. 1, 1990 at 1,015 francs a share.
According to the ministry, retail sales at major department stores were up 12% to 745.7 billion yen.sales at supermarkets rose 6.7% to 642 billion yen.
it's tough to trade stocks in continental Europe.the going gets tough.
I'm not saying London covered itself in glory.the events of the past week have certainly exposed Europe's weaknesses.
On so-called Manic Monday, Oct. 16, stock prices plunged across Europe.trading problems erupted.
On so-called Manic Monday, Oct. 16, stock prices plunged across Europe.trading problems erupted.
London had some problems, too.London's problems were nothing compared with the Continent's.
In Brussels disgusted traders watched helplessly.a software failure before opening on Manic Monday prevented trading for two days.
In Brussels disgusted traders watched helplessly as a software failure before opening on Manic Monday prevented trading for two days..For 48 hours, no one had any idea precisely how much his securities were worth..By Wednesday, frustrated Belgian brokers reopened the market by using the time-honored method of quoting stocks with chalk on a blackboard.The Belgian computer system was repaired and restarted on Tuesday of this week, with the aid of Toronto Stock Exchange officials who developed the system.
the crush led to Manic Monday's worst decline: German stocks ended down 13%.banks processed six-foot telexes of sell orders.
In France, more than half the top 25 blue-chip stocks -- including such giants as BSN and Elf Aquitaine -- didn't open.Wall Street rallied late in the European trading day.
In France, more than half the top 25 blue-chip stocks -- including such giants as BSN and Elf Aquitaine -- didn't open until Wall Street rallied late in the European trading day.by that time, many big institutions had switched business to London.
On Manic Monday, the volume of German shares traded in London more than tripled to 2.2 million.the volume of French shares rose 48%.
On Manic Monday, the volume of German shares traded in London more than tripled to 2.2 million, and the volume of French shares rose 48%.German domestic stock volume in Frankfurt only doubled that day.
they still are the most closely watched stocks and are often viewed as a barometer for the local markets generally.the widely traded shares that are quoted in London account for only a small portion of those totals.
Against this backdrop, one thing that doesn't seem likely to result from 1992 is a single European stock market.there increasingly is a group of international brokerage and trading firms that operate in most European financial centers -- including European giants such as Barclays Bank PLC and Deutsche Bank, as well as Merrill Lynch & Co. and Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. of the U.S. and Japan's Nomura Securities Co.
These firms are calling the shots.it comes to deciding in which market to transact a trade.
These firms, which often have acquired a local brokerage firm, are calling the shots when it comes to deciding in which market to transact a trade.senior officials of two U.S. securities houses say they switched trades in European stocks to the London market last week when they couldn't unwind positions on the Continent.
I would be much happier.this volume {in German stocks} were in Frankfurt rather than London.
at a special meeting on the day of the decline, directors of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange voted to extend their trading hours.they haven't decided when or by how much.
Nobody around here will tell you they are happy the system didn't work.it's just one of those things that happened.
Investors can be assured now that this kind of problem can never occur again.for others, the pledges echo the promises made after the 1987 stock crash, when similar problems led many markets to develop the new systems that performed so badly last week.
They all said they invested huge amounts of money.they either didn't buy the right machines or they wasted it.
But they either didn't buy the right machines.they wasted it.
We don't want Brussels deciding conditions for workers.they are necessary and useful.
Unice -- an acronym for the Union of Industrial and Employers' Confederations of Europe -- fears that the charter will force EC countries to adopt a single pattern in labor relations.The British government strongly opposes the charter in its current form.
France will propose a slightly watered-down version of the charter to be discussed by EC social-affairs ministers on Monday.the cosmetic changes aren't expected to win over Britain.
We still have serious differences with the text.it provides for a "regulation of the labor market.
This would prevent these countries from bridging the difference with their richer EC brethren.lower wages aren't enough to offset higher transport costs and lower productivity in the southern countries.
European Community employers fear that the EC Commission's plans for a "charter of fundamental social rights" is a danger to industrial competitiveness The British government also strongly opposes the charter in its current form.that producing a charter acceptable to both Britain and European industry isn't an unattainable goal.
to adopt the charter.having rebutted the action program.
the Sharpshooter can pump tomorrow.they finish today.
Investment capital is creeping back.oil properties are fetching more.
Mideast politics have calmed down.the squabbling within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries seems under control for now.
That isn't the $40 that delighted producers a decade ago or the $10 that pleased users a year ago.it is high enough to prod the search for future supplies, low enough to promote consumption and, most important, steady enough for both producers and users to believe in.
A recession or new OPEC blowup could put oil markets right back in the soup.the new stirrings are faint, and some question their extent.
Also, the new stirrings are faint.some question their extent.
Drilling activity is still far below eight years ago, there's no hiring surge.some companies continue to shrink.
that halted U.S. oil exploration and drove many veteran oil men and companies out of the business.The same roller-coaster prices that halted U.S. oil exploration and drove many veteran oil men and companies out of the business played havoc with the nation's inflation rate, the trade deficit and oil users' corporate and personal budgets.
Corporate planners can plan again.consumers "should be comfortable.
About a year ago, it ended an on-again, off-again internal production war that had put prices on a roller coaster and pitched oil towns from Houston to Caracas into recession..Saudi Arabia, OPEC's kingpin, abandoned a policy of flooding the market to punish quota-cheaters..About the same time, the Iran-Iraq war, which was roiling oil markets, ended.global petroleum demand has been climbing.
Consumers offer security of markets.OPEC provides security of supply.
At its November meeting, it will try to revise its quotas to satisfy Persian Gulf members that can produce far more oil than their allotments.if they walk out without any effort to resolve their problem, production could increase to 23 million or 24 million barrels a day, making for a very troublesome first quarter.
But production could increase to 23 million or 24 million barrels a day.they walk out without any effort to resolve their problem.
Patrick J. Early, president of Amoco Corp. 's oil-production unit, says that despite recent stability, he plans continued tightening of costs and exploration spending..The view of some others in Big Oil, he maintains, "is very much {similar to} Amoco's outlook." Just this week Mobil Corp. disclosed new cutbacks in its domestic exploration and production operations.Out here on the Querecho Plains of New Mexico the mood is more upbeat.
trucks rumble along the dusty roads.burly men in hard hats sweat and swear through the afternoon sun.
It is more aggressive than most.it isn't the only company with a new attitude.
but it isn't the only company with a new attitude.it found when it went looking for a partner for the Sharpshooter.
as it found.it went looking for a partner for the Sharpshooter.
you can do things you wouldn't do with the volatility of the past few years.you know you've got stability in price.
The activity is enough to move some oil-service prices back up a little.there is money to be made.
Most oil companies forecast revenue of $15 for each barrel of crude produced.they set exploration and production budgets for this year.
Prices have averaged more than $2 a barrel higher than that -- not a windfall, but at least a pleasant bonus for them.according to a Dun & Bradstreet Corp. survey, companies that had been refusing to spend even their very conservative budgets may loosen up before year end.
Funds for drilling may inch up more next year.oil prices stay stable.
institutions are starting to see there are cycles to these things, and this one is beginning to turn.it's still difficult to raise money for a pure wildcat program.
institutions are starting to see there are cycles to these things.this one is beginning to turn.
The appetite for oil-service stocks has been especially strong.some got hit yesterday when Shearson Lehman Hutton cut its short-term investment ratings on them.
Contractors such as Parker Drilling Co. are raising cash again through stock offerings.for the first time in years, two oil-service companies recently went public.
Most oil companies are still reluctant to add to the office and professional staffs they slashed so deeply.a few new spots are opening.
Out in the oil fields shortages could appear.activity picks up much more.
Out in the oil fields shortages could appear.so many roughnecks, roustabouts and others left after the crash.
who arrived late at the Sharpshooter with his crew.he had started early in the morning setting up tanks at another site.
Last year, "I was off a straight month.one time for two to three weeks.
who arrived late at the Sharpshooter with his crew because he had started early in the morning setting up tanks at another site Norman Young, a "mud-logger" at the Sniper well, has worked all but about nine days of this year.Butch McCarty, who sells oil-field equipment for Davis Tool Co., is busy.
after riding the oil-field boom to the top.surviving the bust running an Oklahoma City convenience store.
I think it's on the way back now.it won't be a boom again.
Only 14,505 wells, including 4,900 dry holes, were drilled for oil and natural gas in the U.S. in the first nine months of the year, down 22.4% from the like 1988 period.that was off less than at midyear, when completions lagged by 27.1%.
that there certainly isn't any drilling boom.the number of rigs active in the U.S. is inching up.
After 11:30 a.m. or so "we have them standing and waiting," she says.she whips out orders for hamburgers and the daily special (grilled roast beef, cheese and jalapeno pepper sandwich on whole wheat, potato salad, baked beans and pudding, plus coffee or iced tea..Price: $4.50).
The U.S. Attorney's office filed a criminal complaint against six bank employees charging them with conspiracy in the scheme.Two other men were charged with participating in the operation.
Arrested were Jose O. Lopez, 27 years old, of Whittier, Calif., the vault supervisor; Carlos O. Huerta, 29, of La Puente; Luis A. Arroyo, 36, of Los Angeles; Ignacio Rojas Jr., 32, of Baldwin Park; Doris Moreno, 37, of Bell Gardens; and Ana L. Azucena, 27, of Huntington Park.Geno M. Apicella, 27, of Los Angeles, and Terrell N. Madison, 27, of Hawthorne, were charged with participating in the conspiracy.
Such an offer could torpedo a plan by Lion Nathan Ltd. of New Zealand to acquire half the brewing interests.it would probably increase the amount of cash that debt-ridden Bond Corp. would earn from the transaction.
S.A. Brewing will make a takeover offer for all of Bell Resources.it exercises the option.
Contrary to what might be expected based on the headline on John R. Dorfman's recent Money Matters article ("Pros Hit Theorists Right Where It Hurts" Oct. 3), I was able to stand proudly before my undergraduate finance students and proclaim that the findings of your yearlong experiment on stock picking is completely consistent with what they have been taught in the classroom.I do not find the fact that your group of pros' monthly selections of four stocks outperforms the market in general to be inconsistent with market efficiency.
who invested $100,000 a year ago in the first four stocks selected by your pros.and sold those one month later.
that an investor who invested $100,000 a year ago in the first four stocks selected by your pros and then sold those one month later, purchasing the four new pro picks, and repeated this process for the year would have accumulated $166,537, excluding account dividends, taxes and commissions.an investor holding the Dow Jones portfolio over the year would have accumulated only $127,446.
Accepted theories state that investors require higher returns on riskier investments.rather than seeing the excess returns to the pro-selected portfolio as being abnormal, I see those returns as simply compensations for taking on added risk.
I would select a stock with the greatest amount of undiversifiable risk.you asked me to select a stock with the highest expected return.
Your hypothetical investor is simply being compensated for taking on this added risk.your hypothetical investor has forsaken the gains to be had in reducing risk by diversifying his portfolio.
Mr. Dorfman provides confirming evidence of this phenomenon.he reports that your staff of dart throwers would have accumulated only $112,383 by randomly selecting four new stocks to be held in a portfolio each month.
Mr. Dorfman provides confirming evidence of this phenomenon.he reports that your staff of dart throwers would have accumulated only $112,383 by randomly selecting four new stocks to be held in a portfolio each month.
that the stocks recommended by your pros tend to be substantially riskier than a diversified portfolio.your pickers' recommendations for the coming month are, on average, 22.5% riskier than holding the market portfolio according to Value Line's Beta estimates.
where one agent was stabbed.another was shot and killed.
They looked like ordinary vacationers at first.then they put two loaded pistols to his temple and demanded he open the safe.
They looked like ordinary vacationers at first.But they put two loaded pistols to his temple and demanded he open the safe.
they stabbed him in the back and made off with $2,000 and 280 blank tickets.he initially refused.
they stabbed him in the back and made off with $2,000 and 280 blank tickets.he initially refused.
many agents have started changing their open-door policies.word of the crime spree has spread.
many agents have started changing their open-door policies.word of the crime spree has spread.
It's hard to deal with clients this way in a service business.we're just too nervous.
As word of the crime spree has spread, many agents have started changing their open-door policies.The robberies have set off a controversy involving the airlines.
by confiscating the tickets.they're used.
Agents say airlines, which track ticket numbers of all stolen tickets, should be doing more to catch the thieves by confiscating the tickets when they're used.airlines say it would be too expensive and cause too many delays if they started using computerized scanners to check tickets at the gate.
it would be too expensive and cause too many delays.they started using computerized scanners to check tickets at the gate.
The law -- the first of its kind -- requires car rental companies in Texas to charge only "reasonable" rates for collision-damage waiver insurance.the law says the rates must closely reflect what the company's actual expenses have been to replace damaged cars.
car rental companies were charging as much as $12 a day for the waiver in Texas.the law went into effect last month.
they're telling the truth now.they've been charging 300% more than what is reasonable.
The waiver isn't a source of protection for consumers, but a source of revenue.that at least it's now charging only $3.95 a day in Texas, while some competitors are charging $6.99.
that at least it's now charging only $3.95 a day in Texas.some competitors are charging $6.99.
Flight Attendants Lag.Jets Even Land.
it may be because he or she has been working 20 straight hours.YOUR FLIGHT attendant seems a little weary.
it may be.he or she has been working 20 straight hours.
This happens.the FAA doesn't have any rules on duty time for flight attendants.
because the FAA doesn't have any rules on duty time for flight attendants.it strictly restricts duty time for pilots and air traffic controllers, usually to a maximum of 10 consecutive hours.
such long hours for attendants pose a safety risk.tired flight attendants might not react quickly enough during an emergency evacuation.
They have to work such long hours.then we expect them to be heroes if there's an evacuation.
They have to work such long hours.and we expect them to be heroes if there's an evacuation.
them to be heroes.there's an evacuation.
Why do you maintain the House-passed capital-gains plan is a "temporary" reduction.it is not.
Depending on the size of the gain and the rate of inflation, indexation can mean a lower tax payment than using the 19.6% rate without indexation.in any event tax "payments" on capital gains will be lower with indexation than under current law, even though the tax "rate" is the same under both systems.
But in any event tax "payments" on capital gains will be lower with indexation than under current law, even though the tax "rate" is the same under both systems.this is the important point.
But in any event tax "payments" on capital gains will be lower with indexation than under current law.the tax "rate" is the same under both systems.
The reduction eases the burden on portfolio changes and frees capital to seek more productive or more appropriate uses.what is really significant is the indexation of capital gains after 1991.
The reduction eases the burden on portfolio changes and frees capital to seek more productive or more appropriate uses.what is really significant is the indexation of capital gains after 1991.
A large part of the long-term appreciation of assets reflects inflation.the taxation of inflation-created capital gains is confiscation.
that people ignore the prospect of having a substantial part of their capital confiscated.they decide whether to save or how to invest.
that people ignore the prospect of having a substantial part of their capital confiscated.they decide whether to save or how to invest.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board said it will soon issue a rule requiring disclosure about the financial risk of certain financial instruments.the chief rule-making body for accountants backed off one part of its original proposal made earlier this year that would have required a breakdown of certain balance-sheet items related to off-balance sheet instruments.
The balance-sheet detail was opposed by many banks and thrifts that felt the cost of supplying such data wasn't worth the value of the disclosures.Under the initial proposal banks would have been required to disclose that portion of allowances for loan losses that reflects specific letters of credit for which customers had defaulted.
that would occur.the outside party involved in the instrument failed to perform.
that a final rule will be issued before year end.that the initial effective date of the earlier proposal had been delayed by six months.
Poughkeepsie Savings Bank said a plan to sell its South Carolina branch offices to First Citizens Bank, of Columbia, S.C., fell through.Poughkeepsie expects to post a one-time charge of $8.3 million.
Poughkeepsie Savings Bank said a plan to sell its South Carolina branch offices to First Citizens Bank, of Columbia, S.C., fell through..Poughkeepsie also expects to post a one-time charge of $8.3 million, resulting in a net loss for the third quarter.the bank is increasing its loan-loss reserves for the third quarter by $8.5 million before taxes.
Poughkeepsie said it is continuing to try to sell itself, under a June agreement with a dissident-shareholder group.The bank said its effort would continue past the Nov. 1 deadline set in that agreement and that the litigation between the two sides might resume as a result.
its effort would continue past the Nov. 1 deadline set in that agreement.that the litigation between the two sides might resume as a result.
its effort would continue past the Nov. 1 deadline set in that agreement.and that the litigation between the two sides might resume.
Kinder-Care Inc. was dropped from the consumer services industry group of the Dow Jones Equity Market index.the company split itself in a restructuring.
The vaccine is effective in preventing a disease that still afflicts about 60 million children a year world-wide, causing an estimated one million deaths.The vaccine causes allergic reactions that can be fatal.
that can induce immunity to whooping cough.used as a vaccine.
that, if used as a vaccine, can induce immunity to whooping cough.Unfortunately, the toxin is poisonous.
that only one was responsible for the toxin's virulence.it took all five genes to produce the toxin.
Ordinarily in genetic engineering each of these genes, minus the one that caused the virulence, would have been transferred to another bacterium, called E. coli.which would produce a nonvirulent version of the toxin.
The researchers said they did this.the toxin didn't induce immunity to whooping cough.
they did this.The scientists took the five toxin genes and triggered a mutation in the one gene that caused virulence.
The scientists then took the five toxin genes and triggered a mutation in the one gene that caused virulence.using a new technique (called homologous recombination) for introducing genes into cells, they transferred all five genes to bacteria closely related to the pertussis organism.
These bacterial "cousins" ordinarily don't make the toxin.the genes were accompanied by a piece of DNA, called a promoter, that turns the genes on.
At a time when foreign banks are pouring vast resources and personnel into West Germany's financial center, the opening of a three-man office on a Frankfurt side street shouldn't attract much attention.of course, it happens to be run by the Rothschilds.
Like other foreign banks establishing a presence here, the family describes its move as a calculated decision to set up a financial services outlet in Europe's largest economy ahead of the integration of European Community markets after 1992.the Rothschilds don't deny an emotional element to the decision.
In 1796, Mayer Amschel Rothschild founded Bankhaus M.A. Rothschild & Sons.and sent his four sons to London, Paris, Vienna and Naples to begin the bank's expansion during the early 19th century.
The original bank in Frankfurt closed in 1901 after the death of Wilhelm Carl von Rothschild.the family's banking activities focused on London and Paris.
The original bank in Frankfurt closed in 1901 after the death of Wilhelm Carl von Rothschild.the family's banking activities focused on London and Paris.
that by the end of the 19th century, Berlin had replaced Frankfurt as Germany's financial center.the chief reason for the closure was rooted in a family tradition that wouldn't allow a bank to bear the Rothschild name without a Rothschild in its management.
At the time we had only daughters.we had to close the bank.
the Rothschilds' place in Frankfurt's history is still recalled by the city park and a street bearing the Rothschild name.its palatial residence was destroyed by bombs during World War II.
The persecution pursued the Rothschilds across Europe.the Nazis grabbed countries, confiscating the family's property in the process.
For a member of the Rothschild family, the return to Frankfurt is a very meaningful event.it might not mean as much to German banking as it means to us.
although it might not mean as much to German banking as it means to us.the competition isn't greatly concerned.
It would be surprising.they didn't come to Frankfurt in time for 1992.
It would be surprising if they didn't come to Frankfurt in time for 1992.they bring an interesting tradition.
It would be surprising if they didn't come to Frankfurt in time for 1992, and they bring an interesting tradition.the market really isn't going to be stood on its head.
The new representative office, with one manager and two assistants -- none a member of the Rothschild family -- will carry out no banking operations of its own.it is to seek out corporate financing business and sell investment products on behalf of the family's mainstay banking units: N M Rothschild & Sons Ltd. in London, Rothschild & Cie. in Paris and Rothschild Bank AG in Zurich.
He left his job as general manager of Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. 's Frankfurt office.When the Rothschilds called, I couldn't resist.
because I couldn't resist.the Rothschilds called.
In Europe, the Rothschilds banks are focusing on mergers and acquisitions.European industry restructures ahead of 1992.
In Europe, the Rothschilds banks are focusing on mergers and acquisitions as European industry restructures ahead of 1992.the group's limited resources makes it a niche player.
Obviously, there are quantitative limitations on the assistance we can provide.we feel we have some cards to play.
As at the Zurich bank, the minimum investment for individuals will be high: about a million German marks ($538,000), three times what many other West German investment banks require.we do make exceptions.
But we do make exceptions.they are very young and have very rich parents.
it is time to consider extreme measures.program trading comes under renewed attack for causing stock market gyrations.
trading on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and other exchanges has boomed to the point where trading in stock-index futures rivals that in the stocks themselves.stock futures were created in 1982.
that stocks and "derivatives" such as futures and options "form a single market.that derivatives make it a more liquid market.
The conventional view, as voiced by Goldman, Sachs & Co. partner Fischer Black, is that stocks and "derivatives" such as futures and options "form a single market, and that derivatives make it a more liquid market.increasingly, people are questioning that view.
But increasingly, people are questioning that view.the critics include some of the country's most successful investors.
Warren Buffett has been on record as opposing stock-index futures since their inception in 1982.Mario Gabelli, another star in the investing world, says, "My gut says the negatives of futures and synthetics far outweigh the benefits.
that they will move away from stocks.futures cause investors to lose confidence in stocks.
that if futures cause investors to lose confidence in stocks, they will move away from stocks.those who remain will demand a higher return and over time raise the cost of capital to companies.
traders now routinely check the futures markets in Chicago before they buy or sell stocks.it was once expected that futures would mimic stock prices.
traders now routinely check the futures markets in Chicago.they buy or sell stocks.
the New York Stock Exchange follows.Chicago futures prices jump up or down.
the New York Stock Exchange follows.Chicago futures prices jump up or down.
When Chicago futures prices jump up or down, the New York Stock Exchange follows.On Tuesday the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 80 points in little more than an hour..Then, in the space of a 20-minute coffee break, the average rallied almost all of the way back.
On Tuesday, for instance, the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 80 points in little more than an hour.in the space of a 20-minute coffee break, the average rallied almost all of the way back.
they should close down the futures exchange.then we could get back to investing.
they should close down the futures exchange.we could get back to investing.
too much liquidity isn't a good thing.to add liquidity to markets.
The kind of instant liquidity that is implied by index futures is that you can buy a portfolio over two years and get out in one day..It's too disruptive," he says. "It isn't investing.stock-index futures have plenty of support.
that stocks experienced volatile swings long before futures.few people complain about futures when stock prices are rising.
And few people complain about futures.stock prices are rising.
that trading baskets of stocks began in the 1970s.the advent of futures.
it can't add to volatility.stock-index arbitrage merely narrows the gap between prices in the futures and stock markets.
For one thing, the Chicago futures exchanges have political and financial clout -- including many friends in Congress.traders say that futures have become an accepted part of the financial landscape.
we'll take it to Australia or Tokyo.futures aren't permitted here.
the average value of one day's trading amounts to $7.6 billion.average dollar volume on the Big Board last year was $5.3 billion.
they can hold on to specific stocks and sell a corresponding amount of futures contracts.managers fear that the overall stock market will fall, but want to continue owning stocks.
they can hold on to specific stocks and sell a corresponding amount of futures contracts.managers fear that the overall stock market will fall, but want to continue owning stocks.
futures are useful as a way to hedge portfolios.that brokerage firms rely on futures as hedging tools when they buy and sell big blocks of stocks from institutions.
And one Chicago futures trader notes that brokerage firms rely on futures as hedging tools when they buy and sell big blocks of stocks from institutions.criticism of futures generally comes from Wall Street.
that brokerage firms rely on futures as hedging tools.they buy and sell big blocks of stocks from institutions.
Margin requirements for speculators on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange are currently about 7%.an investor in stocks must put up 50% in cash.
futures encourage people to think of stocks as a single commodity, rather than as investments in individual businesses.futures inhibit the basic purpose of the stock market: to accurately price securities so that capital and investment flows where it's needed most.
to accurately price securities.capital and investment flows where it's needed most.
The S&P 500 index futures "transferred the identity of 500 stocks into one unit-making them a simple commodity to trade.It took away the need to know the bad third-quarter report of IBM.
The S&P 500 index futures "transferred the identity of 500 stocks into one unit-making them a simple commodity to trade.Of course, portfolio trading -- the increasingly common practice of buying or selling baskets of actual stocks treats stocks as homogenous commodities.
The S&P futures are merely a "cheaper and quicker" way to get access to all 500 stocks.owning index futures isn't the same as owning the underlying stocks.
Stockholders, as a group, can win.they own a share of corporate earnings, which can grow and boost stock prices.
Stockholders, as a group, can win.Futures are a zero sum game -- a market for making side bets about the direction of stock prices.
the two companies will be notified.they can begin negotiations with Brussels on how to modify the pact.
in which Air France gained access to five domestic French routes under Air Inter's flight numbers.the domestic airline got to fly to five cities outside of France under the flag of Air France.
we will work again on the text and the contents of the accord.they {the EC} have doubts.
The judge handling the case in state Supreme Court, a trial court, had tossed out the jury verdicts, ruling that the matter should have been handled under federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration rules.the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court held that federal law didn't pre-empt the states from such a prosecution.
GM sought U.S. antitrust clearance last week to purchase more than $15 million worth of Jaguar shares according to GM officials here and at the company's Detroit headquarters.The No. 1 U.S. auto maker wrote Jaguar that it intends "to go to that 15%" level once it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $15 million.
that it intends "to go to that 15%" level.it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $15 million.
Speculative investors, betting on an imminent clash between Ford and GM, pushed up Jaguar's share price five pence (eight U.S. cents) to a near-record 720 pence ($11.60) in late trading on London's stock exchange yesterday.an all-out bidding war between the world's top auto giants for Britain's leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely.
But an all-out bidding war between the world's top auto giants for Britain's leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely.powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share, which limits any individual holding to 15%, until the restriction expires on Dec. 31, 1990.
which limits any individual holding to 15%.the restriction expires on Dec. 31, 1990.
The golden share is a single share.it is the magic share.
The government retained the single share part of a nationalistic practice of protecting former government-owned enterprises to deflect criticism of privatization.selling its stake in Jaguar in 1984.
Ford is willing to bid for 100% of Jaguar's shares.both the government and Jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely.
Ford might succeed.many shareholders are speculators keen for a full bid or institutional investors unhappy over Jaguar management's handling of its current financial difficulties.
As Jaguar's biggest holder and Britain's biggest car maker, Ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early.The government probably wouldn't give in readily to a hostile foray by Ford.
GM Chairman Roger Smith answered the legislators' questions about it over lunch Tuesday.the visit was unrelated to Jaguar.
And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share.Politics influences the government's thinking on the anti-takeover restriction.
The Conservatives don't dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry, where Jaguar has headquarters.can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain's water and electricity industries.
nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company.it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain's water and electricity industries.
The Conservatives don't dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry, where Jaguar has headquarters, nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain's water and electricity industries.Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction's early removal to let GM amass more than 15% or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford.
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might, however, be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction's early removal to let GM amass more than 15% or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford.Sir John -- rather than the government or Jaguar shareholders -- may hold the key that unlocks the golden share.
the situation in the U.S. is still uncertain.reduced production in the country's automotive industry has resulted in weakened demand for rolling bearings.
SKF's results for the first nine months lived up to market expectations.brokerage firms had predicted a pretax profit of 1.74 billion to 1.86 billion kronor.
This may have been true 10 years ago.times have changed, even in Utah.
He has not changed.those around him have.
public views toward the environment have significantly improved.Utah is not yet a haven for environmentalism.
he should have taken an advisory role instead of one of forcing his personal preferences.Mr. Redford wanted to be accepted by the people of Utah.
If Mr. Redford wanted to be accepted by the people of Utah, he should have taken an advisory role instead of one of forcing his personal preferences.his actions imply that it is too damaging or costly for society to provide jobs through power-plant construction, coal mining or to build roads for public safety because of the adverse impact on the environment, but it is just fine and dandy for him to transform a mountain high in the Wasatch Range into a ski resort.
that it is too damaging or costly for society to provide jobs through power-plant construction, coal mining or to build roads for public safety because of the adverse impact on the environment.it is just fine and dandy for him to transform a mountain high in the Wasatch Range into a ski resort.
he'll go with little of the fanfare that accompanies many of his foreign travels.President Bush travels to Costa Rica today.
When President Bush travels to Costa Rica today, he'll go with little of the fanfare that accompanies many of his foreign travels.the two-day trip still has managed to fuel controversy over his administration's policies in Central America.
When President Bush travels to Costa Rica today, he'll go with little of the fanfare that accompanies many of his foreign travels.But the two-day trip has managed to fuel controversy over his administration's policies in Central America.
These critics object to Mr. Bush's participation in a meeting that includes Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega among the guests.they argue he won't help Washington's standing in the region by trumpeting the U.S. commitment to democracy less than a month after his administration played an ineffectual role in the failed coup attempt in Panama.
by trumpeting the U.S. commitment to democracy.his administration played an ineffectual role in the failed coup attempt in Panama.
it will do more damage than good.it will legitimize people like Daniel Ortega.
improvements in Costa Rica's economic condition warrant the cut in aid, which the country uses mainly to make payments on its $4.5 billion foreign debt.that the recent drop in coffee prices, combined with the country's continuing struggle to reinvigorate its economy, make the support as necessary as ever.
We are crossing the river.we need a little more help to get to the other side.
Democrats argue that Costa Rica deserves more assistance for the same reason that Mr. Bush is attending the celebration this weekend.peace efforts by Costa Rican President Oscar Arias haven't always helped the country's cause in Washington.
Mr. Arias's long-time refusal to support the U.S.'s campaign against leftist Nicaragua earned him the ire of the Reagan White House.more recently, he insisted on signing a five-nation agreement intended to disarm Nicaragua's U.S.-backed Contra rebels faster than the Bush administration would prefer.
they insist that Mr. Bush won't be extending the Nicaraguan leader any special courtesies.they acknowledge the president will attend several meals and a working session also attended by Mr. Ortega.
they insist that Mr. Bush won't be extending the Nicaraguan leader any special courtesies.The administration made clear its continuing distate for the leftist Nicaraguan government in recent days.
they insist that Mr. Bush won't be extending the Nicaraguan leader any special courtesies..The administration also made clear its continuing distate for the leftist Nicaraguan government in recent days.Officials insist Mr. Bush will use the trip to highlight his own initiatives for pushing democracy in the region, fighting illegal drugs and assisting the less developed countries.
There won't be any formal resolutions or communiques.we still see this as an opportunity to discuss many, many very important issues.
There won't be any formal resolutions or communiques.But we see this as an opportunity to discuss many, many very important issues.
They want late-night shuttles to the biology labs..They want a 24-hour library.like college radicals everywhere, they are talking about a demonstration.
SONGsters are mad as heck about campus anti-intellectualism.they aren't going to take it anymore, at least not without trying a few really neat ideas first.
We could have called ourselves the Academic Intellectual Society.then everyone would have said, `Oh, you mean the nerd-and-geek club.
We could have called ourselves the Academic Intellectual Society.but everyone would have said, `Oh, you mean the nerd-and-geek club.
Some people may think of nerds as calculator-toting, socially awkward individuals with shirt-pocket liners for their pencils and a preoccupation with computers and matters numerical..Geeks, by at least one definition, are chicken-mutilating circus freaks.SONG founder Jeremy Kahn, a Harvard junior, thinks of nerds and geeks more as "nonconformists," albeit with a studious bent.
that students could call.they have an urge to delay studying.
Nerds and geeks sometimes find themselves a bit isolated at Harvard.high priority is being given to creating a computerized matchmaking service "where instead of being matched for eye color, you could be matched for similar intellectual interests.
where instead of being matched for eye color, you could be matched for similar intellectual interests.I'm a math major, but I want to know about psychobiology..Hopefully, I'd find someone in psychobiology who wanted to know more about mathematics.
I'm a math major.I want to know about psychobiology.
It could work.finding a volunteer to write the computer program isn't a problem.
The FDIC cleared the move yesterday.the banks must wait at least 30 days before closing the purchase.
and the banks must wait at least 30 days.closing the purchase.
William J. Russo was named senior vice president, public affairs and advertising, for this financial and travel services concern's American Express Bank Ltd. subsidiary.Mr. Russo, 38 years old was first vice president, public affairs and advertising, at the banking unit.
At the same time, moves toward tighter air-quality standards are spurring interest in lighter or alternative fuels that don't pollute as much as fuel refined from "heavy" crudes, generally high in sulfur.the scramble is on for lighter crudes globally, and for natural gas in the U.S.
Recently Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, traditional heavy-crude producers, have boasted of new finds of light, low-sulfur oil by their national oil companies.Venezuela has earmarked $200 million in new money for light-crude exploration.
Recently Saudi Arabia and Venezuela, traditional heavy-crude producers, have boasted of new finds of light, low-sulfur oil by their national oil companies..Venezuela has also earmarked $200 million in new money for light-crude exploration.some oil companies are trying to lock in future supplies.
He made a special trip to examine U.S. environmental trends.they are often followed in Europe.
ENI needs to know what's coming.it prepares to spend some $1.3 billion on upgrading its refineries.
Now the wildlife refuge has been closed to the industry, possibly for years.a group of companies led by Chevron Corp. has been unable to pump oil found off the California coast in the early 1980s.
Now the wildlife refuge has been closed to the industry, possibly for years..Similarly, a group of companies led by Chevron Corp. has been unable to pump oil found off the California coast in the early 1980s..A huge production system built in the sea off Santa Barbara and ashore is sitting idle.the push for cleaner fuels is increasing the attractiveness of natural gas.
Now the wildlife refuge has been closed to the industry, possibly for years..Similarly, a group of companies led by Chevron Corp. has been unable to pump oil found off the California coast in the early 1980s..A huge production system built in the sea off Santa Barbara and ashore is sitting idle.the push for cleaner fuels is increasing the attractiveness of natural gas.
We could have sat on it longer.the impetus is to get the gas to the marketplace.
leading reformers have drawn up a blueprint for change designed to push the nation much closer to a free-market system.the Soviet Union grapples with its worsening economy.
They lay out a clear timetable and methodology for liberalizing the system of setting prices, breaking up huge industrial monopolies and putting unprofitable state-owned companies out of business.They address such taboo subjects as the likelihood of unemployment and high inflation, and recommend ways to soften the social consequences.
the blueprint is attracting widespread attention here because of its comprehensiveness and presumed high-level authorship.many solutions to the nation's economic troubles are being discussed.
the article was written by Leonid Abalkin and a small group of colleagues.it was published unsigned in the latest edition of the weekly Ekonomicheskaya Gazeta.
The economic ideas in the document are much bolder than current policies.the proposed overhaul of prices -- an extremely sensitive political topic -- is far more precise than the vague plans announced by Mr. Gorbachev in 1987 and later dropped.
announced by Mr. Gorbachev in 1987.and dropped.
The economic ideas in the document are much bolder than current policies.the proposals also display political savvy.
The economic ideas in the document are much bolder than current policies.But the proposals display political savvy.
who stand to lose out.they are implemented.
the blueprint represents a powerful first shot in what is likely to be a fierce battle over economic reform.policy-makers draw up proposals for the next five-year plan.
and concede that "quick and easy paths to success simply don't exist.they map out a strategy in several phases from now until 1995.
The entire system of centrally set prices would be overhauled.free-market prices introduced for most wholesale trade and some retail trade.
Consumers would still be able to buy some food and household goods at subsidized prices.luxury and imported items, including food, would be sold at market prices.
The blueprint is at its vaguest.referring to the fate of the two powerful economic institutions that seem likely to oppose such sweeping plans: the State Planning Committee, known as Gosplan, and the State Committee for Material Supply, or Gossnab.
The blueprint is at its vaguest when referring to the fate of the two powerful economic institutions that seem likely to oppose such sweeping plans: the State Planning Committee, known as Gosplan, and the State Committee for Material Supply, or Gossnab.it hints strongly that both organizations would increasingly lose their clout as the changes, particularly the introduction of wholesale trade and the breakup of state monopolies, take effect.
that both organizations would increasingly lose their clout.the changes, particularly the introduction of wholesale trade and the breakup of state monopolies, take effect.
that both organizations would increasingly lose their clout.the changes, particularly the introduction of wholesale trade and the breakup of state monopolies, take effect.
I always lift the hood.my car doesn't start.
I coolly take them apart.gadgets at home don't work.
I'll admit there's nothing wrong.That I ever do find.it's nice when people say.I appear mechanically inclined.
But it's nice.people say.I appear mechanically inclined.
people will learn to read.there are TV program listings.
Albert Engelken and Robert Thomson had never met.for 38 years their lives had been intertwined in a way peculiar to the sports world.
Mr. Engelken, now a transit-association executive in Washington, D.C., and Mr. Thomson, a paper-products salesman in Montvale, N.J., hadn't even talked to each other.one recent day, they became much closer.
Like many sports buffs, Mr. Engelken has turned cynic.his is a story about a hero in an era of sports anti-heroes, and about what Babe Ruth, Mr. Engelken reminds us, once called "the only real game in the world.
But his is a story about a hero in an era of sports anti-heroes, and about what Babe Ruth once called "the only real game in the world.To Mr. Engelken, it is a story "about love, because I'm blessed to have a wife who still thinks her slightly eccentric husband's 50th birthday deserves the ultimate present.
To Mr. Engelken, it is also a story "about love.I'm blessed to have a wife who still thinks her slightly eccentric husband's 50th birthday deserves the ultimate present.
Baseball fans throughout New York had sweated out a long summer with their teams.now it had come to this: a battle between the two for the National League pennant -- down to the last inning of the last game, no less.
The Giants scored once and had runners on second {Whitey Lockman} and third {Clint Hartung.Bobby Thomson advanced to the plate.
The tension mounted.Ralph Branca, again on the mound, stared down the batter.
The pitch sailed toward Bobby Thomson high and inside.and with a crack of the bat, was sent rocketing back into the lower leftfield stands.
Mr. Thomson, a tall, Scottish-born, right-hand hitter, stepped into the batter's box. "Thomson took a called strike The tension mounted as Ralph Branca, again on the mound, stared down the batter..He wound up and let loose a fastball..The pitch sailed toward Bobby Thomson high and inside and then, with a crack of the bat, was sent rocketing back into the lower leftfield stands. "Giants fans went into euphoria.Bobby Thomson was made a legend.
where he was.he heard the famous Russ Hodges radio broadcast -- the one that concluded with Mr. Hodges shouting, over and over, "The Giants win the pennant, the Giants win the pennant.
Mr. Engelken and Mr. Thomson drifted in different directions in the subsequent years.the Polo Grounds, located under Coogan's Bluff in upper Manhattan, was replaced by a public-housing project.
posting a lifetime .270 batting average and chalking up 264 home runs.retiring and going into paper-goods sales.
Mr. Engelken moved south to Washington.he took with him enduring memories of the homer of 1951.
Mr. Engelken moved south to Washington.he took with him enduring memories of the homer of 1951.
Mr. Engelken -- no slouch on the romantic front -- gave her the ultimate compliment: "You look prettier than Bobby Thomson's home run.his wife, Betsy, came down the aisle on their wedding day in 1966.
The couple's first dog, Homer, was named after the Great Event.unwitting friends assumed he was the namesake of the poet.
When his wife, Betsy, came down the aisle on their wedding day in 1966, Mr. Engelken -- no slouch on the romantic front -- gave her the ultimate compliment: "You look prettier than Bobby Thomson's home run." The couple's first dog, Homer, was named after the Great Event.when Mr. Engelken's sister, Martha, who was born two days before the home run, reached her 25th birthday, Mr. Engelken wrote his sports hero to tell him of the coincidence of events.
And Mr. Engelken wrote his sports hero to tell him of the coincidence of events.Mr. Engelken's sister, Martha reached her 25th birthday.
It doesn't seem like 25 years.I hit that home run to celebrate your birth.
The family license plate reads "ENG 23," the first three letters of the family name and -- no surprise here -- Bobby Thomson's uniform number.on Mr. Engelken's 40th birthday, his wife bought a book detailing the big homer and sent it off to Mr. Thomson to be autographed.
At the appointed exit, the family pulled over.Mrs. Engelken went to get her papers.
Bertie," she said, "Happy 50th Birthday..This is Bobby Thomson.there he was.
His hero signed photographs of the homer and diplomatically called Ralph Branca "a very fine pitcher.when Mr. Engelken asked him why he took time off from work for somebody he didn't even know, Bobby Thomson replied: "You know, Albert, if you have the chance in life to make somebody this happy, you have an obligation to do it.
And Bobby Thomson replied: "You know, Albert, if you have the chance in life to make somebody this happy, you have an obligation to do it.Mr. Engelken asked him why he took time off from work for somebody he didn't even know.
You know, Albert you have an obligation to do it.you have the chance in life to make somebody this happy.
In an interview, Mr. Thomson, who is married and has three grown children, says he has few ties to baseball these days, other than playing old-timers games now and again.his fans, to his constant amazement, never let him forget the famous four-bagger.
In response to the letters, Mr. Thomson usually sends an autographed photo with a polite note, and rarely arranges a rendezvous.when Betsy Engelken wrote him, saying she could stop near his New Jersey home, it seemed different.
But it seemed different.Betsy Engelken wrote him, saying she could stop near his New Jersey home.
Mr. Engelken wrote it all down.the Engelken family got back from its trip up north.
You might not find one in the `Jurisprudence' column.who knows?.You might meet up with him at that bank of telephone booths just off Exit 10 of the New Jersey Turnpike.
Torstar will be free to increase its 22.4% stake in Southam, or to make an offer for the whole company.that agreement expires.
To be profitable, the paper requires more circulation.building circulation is an expensive undertaking.
Mr. Ondaatje couldn't be reached for comment.Roy Mac-Laren, chairman of CB Media, a closely held concern that publishes two business magazines, said his company would take a close look at the newspaper.
of cutting costs to obtain maximum profits from its operations.disposing of "chronically under-performing" assets.
of cutting costs to obtain maximum profits from its operations.disposing of "chronically under-performing" assets.
to cut costs in its newspaper division through layoffs and asset sales.reaching joint venture and acquisition agreements in other areas.
Operating profit in the company's abrasives segment rose 16%.operating profit in the engineering materials segment rose 2%.
Operating profit in the company's abrasives segment rose 16% while operating profit in the engineering materials segment rose 2%.the company's petroleum services segment, while profitable, was hurt by high financing costs associated with the company's buy-out of a 50% stake in Eastman Christensen Co. from Texas Eastern Corp. last June.
However, the company's petroleum services segment was hurt by high financing costs associated with the company's buy-out of a 50% stake in Eastman Christensen Co. from Texas Eastern Corp. last June.profitable.
In 1987, a quarter of the population owned 91% of the nation's 71,895 square kilometers of private land.10% of the population owned 65% of the land devoted to housing.
In 1987, a quarter of the population owned 91% of the nation's 71,895 square kilometers of private land and 10% of the population owned 65% of the land devoted to housing.that only about a third of Korean families own their own homes.
I'm afraid of a popular revolt.this situation isn't corrected.
I'm afraid of a popular revolt if this situation isn't corrected.during the past three months there have been several demonstrations at the office complex where the Land Bureau is housed, and at the National Assembly, demanding the government put a stop to real-estate speculation.
Grace periods ranging from two to five years.the full scope of the penalties takes effect.
The administration says the measures would stem rampant property speculation, free more land for the government's ambitious housing-construction program, designed to build two million apartments by 1992.opposition legislators and others calling for help for South Korea's renters say the proposed changes don't go far enough to make it possible for ordinary people to buy a home.
The Citizens Coalition for Economic Justice, a public-interest group leading the charge for radical reform, wants restrictions on landholdings, high taxation of capital gains, and drastic revamping of the value-assessment system on which property taxes are based.others, large landowners, real-estate developers and business leaders, say the government's proposals are intolerable.
There is no violation of the capitalistic principle of private property in what we are doing.the constitution empowers the government to impose some controls, to mitigate the shortage of land.
that as much as 67% of corporate-owned land is held by 403 companies.that as little as 1.5% of that is used for business.
The chief culprits are big companies and business groups that buy huge amounts of land "not for their corporate use, but for resale at huge profit.The Ministry of Finance has proposed a series of measures that would restrict business investment in real estate even more tightly than restrictions aimed at individuals.
The Ministry of Finance, as a result, has proposed a series of measures that would restrict business investment in real estate even more tightly than restrictions aimed at individuals.Mrs. Park acknowledges that even if the policies work to slow or stop speculation, apartment prices are unlikely to go down.
that apartment prices are unlikely to go down.the policies work to slow or stop speculation.
it is confident about future earnings and cash flow for 1990 and beyond.profits were "squeezed" in 1989, mainly as a result of higher raw-material costs.
the ordinance is intended to prevent the concentration of group homes for the mentally retarded from changing "the character and flavor of the neighborhood.the ordinance will benefit the mentally retarded.
Energetic and concrete action has been taken in Colombia during the past 60 days against the mafiosi of the drug trade.it has not been sufficiently effective, because, unfortunately, it came too late.
but it has not been sufficiently effective.unfortunately, it came too late.
Ten years ago, the newspaper El Espectador began warning of the rise of the drug mafias and of their leaders' aspirations to control Colombian politics, especially the Congress.nothing was done.
Then nothing was done.it would have been easier to resist them.
Then, when it would have been easier to resist them, nothing was done.my brother was murdered by the drug mafias three years ago.
Then, when it would have been easier to resist them, nothing was done.my brother was murdered by the drug mafias three years ago.
Within the past two months a bomb exploded in the offices of the El Espectador in Bogota, destroying a major part of its installations and equipment.only last week the newspaper Vanguardia Liberal in the city of Bucaramanga was bombed, and its installations destroyed.
And only last week the newspaper Vanguardia Liberal in the city of Bucaramanga was bombed.its installations destroyed.
And only last week the newspaper Vanguardia Liberal in the city of Bucaramanga was bombed.its installations destroyed.
Distribution centers are bombed.advertisers are intimidated.
there is little doubt that the drug mafia's terrorism someday will extend to all the newspapers published in the free world.the Colombian media accept this new and hideous censorship.
but it has not been sufficiently effective, because, unfortunately, it came too late.The American people and their government woke up too late to the menace drugs posed to the moral structure of their country.
Reduction of drug consumption is the requirement for victory.not the total cessation.
Luxurious homes and ranches have been raided by the military authorities.sophisticated and powerful communications equipment have been seized.
More than 300 planes and helicopters have been impounded at airports.a large number of vehicles and launches has been confiscated.
More than 300 planes and helicopters have been impounded at airports, and a large number of vehicles and launches has been confiscated.The military has captured enormous arsenals of powerful and sophisticated weapons, explosives and other war-like materiel.
Much has been accomplished.public opinion decisively supports the government and the army.
Much has been accomplished and public opinion decisively supports the government and the army.on the other hand, none of the key drug barons have been captured.
Much has been accomplished and public opinion decisively supports the government and the army.but none of the key drug barons have been captured.
Laundered drug money has served only to increase, unrealistically, the price of real estate.Drug money has gone to buy expensive cars, airplanes, launches and nightclubs where drugs are consumed.
Drug money has also gone to buy expensive cars, airplanes, launches and nightclubs where drugs are consumed.most of the drug money is kept in investments and in financial institutions outside Colombia.
But most of the drug money is kept in investments and in financial institutions outside Colombia.the cooperation of those financial institutions is essential to the success of the drug battle.
The price of coffee has gone down almost 45% since the beginning of the year, to the lowest level (after inflation) since the Great Depression.Colombia will earn $500 million less from its coffee this year than last.
Our coffee growers face reductions in their income.this tempts them to contemplate substituting coca crops for coffee.
Thirty-four thousand of its children live in foster homes.50,000 residents have no homes at all.
Thirty-four thousand of its children live in foster homes.50,000 residents have no homes at all.
Its tax base is shrinking, a $1 billion budget deficit looms.the city faces contract negotiations with all major municipal unions next year.
the man most likely to gain custody of all this is a career politician named David Dinkins.the dust and dirt settle in an extra-nasty mayoral race.
Running the nation's largest and most ornery city may be no treat.at least Mr. Dinkins knows what to expect from it.
however, voters still have very little idea what they can expect from him.the campaign hits the home stretch.
but at least Mr. Dinkins knows what to expect from it.As the campaign hits the home stretch voters still have very little idea what they can expect from him.
he has few major political programs that he can call his own.he is widely described as a man with deep convictions.
Now even some supporters wonder what he will do if he wins the mayoralty on Nov. 7.election day nears.
what he will do.he wins the mayoralty on Nov. 7.
They wonder whether he has the economic know-how to steer the city through a possible fiscal crisis.they wonder who will be advising him.
Will he be in the thrall of the most liberal of his allies or will he tilt toward the real-estate interests that have funneled money into his campaign.he wins.
Will he, if he wins, be in the thrall of the most liberal of his allies, who advocate such policies as rent control for commercial buildings.will he tilt toward the real-estate interests that have funneled money into his campaign.
After his decisive primary victory over Mayor Edward I. Koch in September, Mr. Dinkins coasted, until recently, on a quite-comfortable lead over his Republican opponent, Rudolph Giuliani, the former crime buster who has proved a something of a bust as a candidate.Mr. Dinkins has stumbled in the past two weeks over his campaign's payments to a black activist who is a convicted kidnapper, and over his handling of a stock sale to his son.
But Mr. Dinkins has stumbled in the past two weeks over his campaign's payments to a black activist who is a convicted kidnapper, and over his handling of a stock sale to his son.Polls have recorded some slippage in Mr. Dinkins's support among Jewish voters, and citywide projections now put his lead at between four and 20 percentage points.
Polls also have recorded some slippage in Mr. Dinkins's support among Jewish voters.citywide projections now put his lead at between four and 20 percentage points.
A lot of people think I will give away the store.I can assure you I will not.
The city is full of aging bridges, water mains and roadways that are in need of billions of dollars worth of repair..Renewed efforts to fight drugs and crime will be costly.tax revenues are lagging.
tax revenues are lagging.after a decade of explosive job growth on Wall Street, a period of contraction is under way.
he will drop 3,200 jobs from the city payroll.that won't be enough.
that could grow.there is a recession.
Mr. Dinkins will probably have no choice but to raise taxes on overburdened businesses or cut spending in already under-serviced neighborhoods.elected.
His supporters are not venal.their solution to everything will be to spend more money, and he won't have any money.
but their solution to everything will be to spend more money.he won't have any money.
No doubt, Mr. Dinkins has been a calming influence.even in his front-runner campaign, he has shown signs of the indecisiveness and confusion.
to fester a full week.Mr. Dinkins faced the media.
and was largely inaccessible to the media.the stock story broke.
A story about how he mishandled the sale to his son of his stock in a media company controlled by his political patron Percy Sutton was allowed to fester a full week before Mr. Dinkins faced the media His campaign was caught flat-footed amid allegations it paid almost $10,000 for what it said was a "get-out-the-vote" effort by black activist Sonny Carson, a convicted kidnapper who later said publicly that he is "anti-white.Mr. Dinkins has failed to allay Jewish voters' fears about his association with the Rev. Jesse Jackson, despite the fact that few local non-Jewish politicians have been as vocal for Jewish causes in the past 20 years as Mr. Dinkins has.
A former U.S. Marine, Mr. Dinkins got off to a quick start in politics, joining a local Democratic political club in the 1950s, linking up with black urban leaders such as Charles Rangel, Basil Paterson and Mr. Sutton, and getting himself elected to the state assembly in 1965.his chance to become deputy mayor under Mayor Abraham Beame, a plan boosted by Mr. Sutton, was squandered because of Mr. Dinkins's failure -- still largely unexplained -- to file income tax returns for four years running.
joining a local Democratic political club in the 1950s, linking up with black urban leaders such as Charles Rangel, Basil Paterson and Mr. Sutton, and getting himself elected to the state assembly in 1965.Mr. Dinkins became more deeply indebted to Mr. Sutton and other city pols, including then-City Council President Paul O'Dwyer, when they helped him get appointed city clerk, a largely ceremonial post responsible for the city's marriage bureau, among other things.
Later, Mr. Dinkins became more deeply indebted to Mr. Sutton and other city pols, including then-City Council President Paul O'Dwyer.they helped him get appointed city clerk, a largely ceremonial post responsible for the city's marriage bureau, among other things.
Later, Mr. Dinkins became more deeply indebted to Mr. Sutton and other city pols, including then-City Council President Paul O'Dwyer.they helped him get appointed city clerk, a largely ceremonial post responsible for the city's marriage bureau, among other things.
I sat down with Charlie {Rangel}, Basil {Paterson} and David.I left.
When I left, I sat down with Charlie {Rangel}, Basil {Paterson} and David.David said, 'Who will run for borough president.
When I left, I sat down with Charlie {Rangel}, Basil {Paterson} and David, and David said, 'Who will run for borough president.I said, 'You will.
He really is the personification of the patronage system.the guy is so personally decent, people tend to forget that.
Mr. Dinkins lost twice by wide margins.finally getting elected borough president in 1985.
Mr. Dinkins lost twice by wide margins.before getting elected borough president in 1985.
Mr. Dinkins lost twice by wide margins.before getting elected borough president in 1985.
Mr. Dinkins lost twice by wide margins before finally getting elected borough president in 1985.he made little of the post and was best known among city politicians for his problems making up his mind on matters before the city's Board of Estimate, the body that votes on crucial budget and land-use matters.
how meetings would crawl into the early morning hours.Mr. Dinkins would march his staff out of board meetings and into his private office to discuss, en masse, certain controversial proposals.
that he was the only Board of Estimate member to vote against a controversial real-estate project at Manhattan's Columbus Circle.he took so long to decide how to vote that by the time he decided, it was too late to try to draw other members to his position.
He would have got a lot more done.he made up his mind faster.
I had some problem from time to time on the length of time he would take to make up his mind.that he didn't delay his support of Mr. Dinkins and that he backs the Democratic candidate enthusiastically.
that he didn't delay his support of Mr. Dinkins.that he backs the Democratic candidate enthusiastically.
some allies cringed a little more.he later sided with striking hospital workers.
some allies cringed a little more.he later sided with striking hospital workers.
when Mr. Dinkins suggested weakening the law forbidding public employees to go on strike.When he sided with striking hospital workers.
When he later sided with striking hospital workers.Mr. Dinkins promised he would issue a three-year moratorium on construction of garbage-incinerator plants.
Then Mr. Dinkins promised he would issue a three-year moratorium on construction of garbage-incinerator plants.receiving an endorsement from environmental groups.
That announcement was roundly criticized by Mayor Koch.the city faces a garbage crisis and has already spent $5 million planning for an incinerator that would be scrapped under Mr. Dinkins's proposal.
Mr. Dinkins's position papers have more consistently reflected anti-development sentiment.his public statements have at times been confusing.
While his public statements have at times been confusing, Mr. Dinkins's position papers have more consistently reflected anti-development sentiment.he favors a more cooperative approach toward the neighboring states of New Jersey and Connecticut in the battle over companies thinking of moving employees out of New York City.
And he favors a more cooperative approach toward the neighboring states of New Jersey and Connecticut in the battle over companies thinking of moving employees out of New York City.Mr. Dinkins's economic planks don't seem to bother the business community, where he draws significant support.
Mr. Dinkins's "economic development program is shortsighted.when it comes down to it, he can be reasonable.
but he can be reasonable.it comes down to it.
The key man seems to be the campaign manager, Mr. Lynch.as the Dinkins campaign hit tough times this month, Andrew Cuomo, the politically seasoned son of the New York governor, is also said to have taken a more active role on strategy.
But Andrew Cuomo, the politically seasoned son of the New York governor, is also said to have taken a more active role on strategy.the Dinkins campaign hit tough times this month.
The key man seems to be the campaign manager, Mr. Lynch.But as the Dinkins campaign hit tough times this month, Andrew Cuomo, the politically seasoned son of the New York governor, is said to have taken a more active role on strategy.
his mayoralty may take on a more anti-development flavor.she remains influential with Mr. Dinkins.
If she remains influential with Mr. Dinkins, as some suggest she will, his mayoralty may take on a more anti-development flavor.Lincoln Center President Nathan Leventhal, who would head a Dinkins transition team, is more mainstream, as is real-estate executive Anthony Gliedman, another insider.
But Lincoln Center President Nathan Leventhal, who would head a Dinkins transition team, is more mainstream, as is real-estate executive Anthony Gliedman, another insider.Mr. Dinkins has said he would receive economic advice from a board that would include American Express Co. chairman James D. Robinson III, investment banker Felix Rohatyn, leveraged-buy-out specialist Reginald Lewis and attorney Joseph Flom.
Mr. Dinkins also has said he would receive economic advice from a board that would include American Express Co. chairman James D. Robinson III, investment banker Felix Rohatyn, leveraged-buy-out specialist Reginald Lewis and attorney Joseph Flom.Some business leaders and others believe that Mr. Dinkins would place significant responsibility in the hands of a deputy mayor with a strong administrative background.
Names of possible deputies that have surfaced include former mayoral candidate Richard Ravitch, former schools chancellor Frank Macchiarola and Messrs..Leventhal and Gliedman.there are Mr. Dinkins's old-time Harlem colleagues, such as U.S. Rep. Rangel, former Deputy Mayor Paterson and Mr. Sutton.
we are making a sad mistake.any of us think we're going to sidetrack David's determination to be the best possible mayor because of his obligations to us.
David is a pragmatist.Mr. Dinkins's sense of pragmatism often comes across more as an insider's determination not to upset the political apple cart.
David is a pragmatist.Mr. Dinkins's sense of pragmatism often comes across more as an insider's determination not to upset the political apple cart.
He is taken aback in an interview.asked whether, as mayor, he plans on reforming the political "fiefdoms" that perpetuate the monumental ineffectiveness of New York's school system.
He is taken aback in an interview.asked whether, as mayor, he plans on reforming the political "fiefdoms" that perpetuate the monumental ineffectiveness of New York's school system.
The bottom line is that he is a very genuine and decent guy.I think David will be judged for being David.
exposed.the house lurched two feet off its foundation during last week's earthquake.
exposed.the house lurched two feet off its foundation during last week's earthquake.
dressed in jeans and a sweatshirt.she slogs through the steady afternoon rain.
Equipped with cellular telephones, laptop computers, calculators and a pack of blank checks, they parcel out money.their clients can find temporary living quarters, buy food, replace lost clothing, repair broken water heaters, and replaster walls.
The Victorian house that Ms. Johnson is inspecting has been deemed unsafe by town officials.she asks a workman toting the bricks from the lawn to give her a boost through an open first-floor window.
she spends nearly four hours measuring and diagramming each room in the 80-year-old house, gathering enough information to estimate what it would cost to rebuild it.inside.
a tenant returns with several friends to collect furniture and clothing.she works inside.
It's hard to accept all the suffering people are going through.you have to.
you can't do your job.you don't.
For Aetna and other insurers, the San Francisco earthquake hit.resources in the field already were stretched.
Aetna senior claims executives from the San Francisco area were at the company's Hartford, Conn., headquarters for additional training on how to handle major catastrophes, including earthquakes.the earthquake rocked northern California last week.
the company chartered three planes to fly these executives back to the West Coast and bring along portable computers, cellular phones and some claims adjusters.commercial airline flights were disrupted.
In a few instances, Aetna knew it would probably be shelling out big bucks.a client called or faxed in a claim.
In a few instances, Aetna knew it would probably be shelling out big bucks, even before a client called or faxed in a claim.officials at Walnut Creek office learned that the Amfac Hotel near the San Francisco airport, which is insured by Aetna, was badly damaged when they saw it on network television news.
For example, officials at Walnut Creek office learned that the Amfac Hotel near the San Francisco airport was badly damaged.they saw it on network television news.
For example, officials at Walnut Creek office learned that the Amfac Hotel near the San Francisco airport was badly damaged.they saw it on network television news.
Adjusters must count the number of bathrooms, balconies, fireplaces, chimneys, microwaves and dishwashers.they must also assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors, wallcoverings, roofing and siding.
Adjusters must count the number of bathrooms, balconies, fireplaces, chimneys, microwaves and dishwashers.But they must assign a price to each of these items as well as to floors, wallcoverings, roofing and siding, to come up with a total value for a house.
he found them living in a mobile home parked in front of their yard.Aetna adjuster Bill Schaeffer visited a retired couple in Oakland last Thursday.
The house itself was pushed about four feet off its foundation.and collapsed into its basement.
The next day, Mr. Schaeffer presented the couple with a check for $151,000 to help them build a new home in the same neighborhood.He is working with a real-estate agent to help find them an apartment to rent while their home is being built.
to rent.their home is being built.
Many of the adjusters employed by Aetna and other insurers have some experience with construction work or carpentry.such skills were alien to Toni Johnson.
that she might want to look into a position at Aetna.she was interested in a job that would constantly challenge her.
Recently, a contractor saved her from falling three stories.she investigated what remained of an old Victorian house torched by an arsonist.
the house begins to creak and sway.Ms. Johnson stands outside the Hammack house after winding up her chores there.
As Ms. Johnson stands outside the Hammack house.winding up her chores there.
It is an aftershock, one of about 2,000 since the earthquake.it makes her uneasy.
The next day she jumps at the slightest noise.she prepares a $10,000 check for the Hammacks.
that their policy covers the replacement cost.the appliances can't be salvaged.
We can lose money on this.you didn't want me to buy earthquake insurance.
Earthquake insurance costs about $2 to $4 annually for every $1,000 of value.high deductibles mean it generally pays only when there is a catastrophe.
it generally pays.there is a catastrophe.
Earthquake insurance costs about $2 to $4 annually for every $1,000 of value, and high deductibles mean it generally pays only when there is a catastrophe.many Californians believe they can get by without it.
The apartment she shares with a 12-year-old daughter and her sister was rattled, books and crystal hit the floor.nothing was severely damaged.
She didn't have hot water for five days.Last Sunday, Ms. Johnson got a chance to water her plants.
I couldn't waste this water.there are people in Watsonville who don't have fresh water to drink.
She hasn't played any music out of respect for those who died on Interstate 880 where the roadway collapsed.the earthquake hit.
Alfred Sikes, the new FCC chairman, championed deregulation of AT&T at his last job as head of a Commerce Department telecommunications agency.it has been an open question whether Mr. Sikes, an extraordinarily cautious man, would continue pushing deregulation at the FCC in the face of what is likely to be great political pressure.
By a 4-0 vote, it allowed AT&T to continue offering special discount packages to big customers, called Tariff 12.by a separate 4-0 vote, it chose the narrowest possible grounds to strike down a different discount plan, called Tariff 15, that AT&T offered to Holiday Corp.
that AT&T couldn't continue to offer its discount plan.MCI's offer had expired.
The agency said that because MCI's offer had expired AT&T couldn't continue to offer its discount plan.the agency specifically didn't rule whether AT&T had the right to match offers by competitors if that means giving discounts not generally available to other phone users.
The agency said that because MCI's offer had expired AT&T couldn't continue to offer its discount plan.But the agency didn't rule whether AT&T had the right to match offers by competitors if that means giving discounts not generally available to other phone users.
whether AT&T had the right to match offers by competitors.that means giving discounts not generally available to other phone users.
whether AT&T had the right to match offers by competitors.AT&T offered a similar Tariff 15 discount to Resort Condominium International, of Indianapolis, to meet another MCI bid.
they expect to re-examine how AT&T is regulated.competition has increased.
AT&T applauded the FCC's actions.MCI, of Washington, was displeased with the FCC decision concerning Tariff 12.
The Federal Communications Commission allowed American Telephone & Telegraph Co. to continue offering discount phone services for large-business customers and said it would soon re-examine its regulation of the long-distance market.AT&T filed a countersuit against MCI accusing it of misleading consumers through allegedly "false and deceptive" advertising.
fund managers will face increasing pressure to sell off some of their junk to pay departing investors in the weeks ahead.the heavy outflows continue.
Mutual fund groups haven't lost control of much of the outgoing money.the impact on the $950 billion mutual fund industry as a whole probably will be slight.
So the impact on the $950 billion mutual fund industry as a whole probably will be slight.tremors are likely in the junk-bond market.
you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following.go back to normal.
Vanguard's $1 billion High Yield Bond Portfolio has seen $161 million flow out since early September; $14 million of that seeped out Friday Oct. 13 alone.two-thirds of the outflow has been steered into other Vanguard portfolios.
Junk-fund holders have barely broken even this year.fat interest payments barely managed to offset declining prices.
Fidelity's junk fund has fallen 2.08% this year through Oct. 19 the Vanguard fund rose 1.84%.the T. Rowe Price fund edged up 0.66%.
Funds might be forced to accept lower prices.they expand their selling to the securities of less-creditworthy borrowers.
Funds might be forced to accept lower prices if they expand their selling to the securities of less-creditworthy borrowers.then, asset values of the funds could plunge more than they have so far.
Funds might be forced to accept lower prices.And asset values of the funds could plunge more than they have so far.
The surprise resignation yesterday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson sent sterling into a tailspin against the dollar by creating uncertainties about the direction of the British economy.The U.S. unit firmed against other currencies on the back of sterling's tumble, as market participants switched out of pounds.
The U.S. unit also firmed against other currencies on the back of sterling's tumble.market participants switched out of pounds.
The surprise resignation yesterday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson sent sterling into a tailspin against the dollar.The pound dropped precipitously against the mark.
Mr. Lawson's resignation shocked many analysts, despite the recent recurring speculation of a rift between the chancellor and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.only hours earlier, Mrs. Thatcher had called Mr. Lawson's economic policies "sound" and said she has "always supported" him.
that Mr. Lawson's replacement, John Major, the British foreign minister, will take time to establish his credibility.in the meantime, sterling could trend downward in volatile trade.
that Mr. Lawson's replacement, John Major, the British foreign minister, will take time to establish his credibility.and sterling could trend downward in volatile trade.
Mr. Foley of Lloyds noted that Mr. Lawson's replacement, John Major, the British foreign minister, will take time to establish his credibility and, in the meantime, sterling could trend downward in volatile trade.Mr. Foley predicted few economic policy changes ahead, commenting that Mr. Major shares "a very similar view of the world" with Mr. Lawson.
But Mr. Foley predicted few economic policy changes ahead, commenting that Mr. Major shares "a very similar view of the world" with Mr. Lawson.Bob Chandross, chief economist at Lloyds Bank in New York noted that the pound's sharp decline is pegged more to uncertainty in the market than a vision of altered United Kingdom economic policies.
Mr. Lawson's withdrawal will have little long-term impact on exchange rates.Mr. Lawson's resignation leads to a change in British interest-rate policy or posturing toward full inclusion in the European Monetary System's exchange-rate mechanism.
The surprise resignation yesterday of British Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson.announcing his resignation Thursday was Alan Walters, Mrs. Thatcher's economic adviser and Mr. Lawson's nemesis.
the Federal Reserve Bank to buy pounds for dollars.The Fed's move only proved a stopgap to the pound's slide.
The Fed's move, however, only proved a stopgap to the pound's slide.the Fed intervened for a second time at around $1.5825, according to New York traders.
The pound, which had been trading at about $1.6143 in New York prior to Mr. Lawson's announcement, sank more than two cents to $1.5930, prompting the Federal Reserve Bank to buy pounds for dollars.dollar trading was relatively uninspired throughout the session, according to dealers.
of which 1.8 million will be sold by Home Nutritional Services.2.2 million will be sold by Healthdyne, via Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
of which 1,365,226 will be offered by the company.334,774 will be offered by holders, via Alex..Brown & Sons Inc., Hambrecht & Quist Inc. and Wessels, Arnold & Henderson.
of which 1,003,884 shares are to be sold by the company.496,116 shares are to be sold by holders, via Morgan Stanley & Co. and Hambrecht & Quist.
it's ridiculous.indeed by now ridiculous may be the only way to describe how the U.S. decides to take -- or rather, not to take -- covert action.
it's ridiculous.and by now ridiculous may be the only way to describe how the U.S. decides to take -- or rather, not to take -- covert action.
to take covert action.or not to take.
George Bush disclosed the policy last week by reading it to GOP senators, perhaps as a way of shifting blame for the Panama fiasco to Congress.the broader truth is more complicated -- and dismaying.
Mr. Boren himself didn't discover the warn-your-enemy nuance.Mr. Bush told him privately at the White House last week.
Mr. Boren might even succeed.this were 1949.
If this were 1949, Mr. Boren might even succeed.in 1989 most senators have other ideas.
Ohio Democrat Howard Metzenbaum refused to support any plan that might get people hurt, a charming notion for a great power..Maine Republican William Cohen said the plan might violate the assassination ban.the administration dropped it.
Mr. Boren doesn't think all this influenced the failed coup this month.he does concede that Congress has made mistakes.
that they have to bring their lawyers.they plan a coup.
Mr. Boren doesn't think all this influenced the failed coup this month, but he does concede that Congress has made mistakes.even Mr. Boren defends congressional oversight.
that his committee approves covert operations.there's a "consensus.
It doesn't mean unanimous," he insists.he implies it means a bipartisan majority.
Why was containment so successful.it had bipartisan support.
that even Grenada or the Libyan raid would have taken place.consensus" had been required.
it's quite a veto.wouldn't a president who acted despite Senate objections be taking grave political risks.
He would.that is something the president ought to know before he goes ahead.
But that is something the president ought to know.he goes ahead.
Maybe.every senator shared the principles of Mr. Boren.
He figures the episode will help "clarify any ambiguities" between the committee and administration.it's just as plausible to argue that if even David Boren can get mired in this sort of mess, the problem goes beyond legal interpretation.
that the problem goes beyond legal interpretation.even David Boren can get mired in this sort of mess.
that we can't abolish these oversight committees.we've seen too many abuses of executive power.
The reply of the Metzenbaums and Cohens is that we can't abolish these oversight committees because we've seen too many abuses of executive power.Panama illustrates that their substitute is a system that produces an absurd gridlock.
This morning I thought of how fortunate it was that we made the decision to be residents of an expanding community with so many opportunities and where so much is happening.I drove the 13 miles to my law office and endured the routine heavy traffic during that twice-daily journey.
being fired at age 44, with five children at home.my views and actions were deemed unsettling by a timid, small-town employer.
being fired at age 44, with five children at home.my views and actions were deemed unsettling by a timid, small-town employer.
Now, I revel in the freedom, culture, activity and diversity of this great metropolitan area with its traffic jams and perpetual road-building projects.when my youngest child died two years ago, I buried him in the church cemetery of a small Missouri town.
Yet I buried him in the church cemetery of a small Missouri town.my youngest child died two years ago.
Yet when my youngest child died two years ago, I buried him in the church cemetery of a small Missouri town.after all, even the bitterest critic of rural exclusivity harbors a continuing yearning for those scarce, rural virtues thought to exist amid fields, forests and country lanes.
Shipbuilding became a point of pride.Finnish shipyards remained profitable long after rivals collapsed all over Europe.
as Finnish shipyards remained profitable.rivals collapsed all over Europe.
Shipbuilding became a point of pride as Finnish shipyards remained profitable long after rivals collapsed all over Europe.if, as many now fear, Waertsilae Marine joins the ranks of failed shipyards it might turn out to be remembered most as a blemish on Finland's international reputation.
But it might turn out to be remembered most as a blemish on Finland's international reputation.Waertsilae Marine joins the ranks of failed shipyards.
the first ship probably will be delivered close to schedule.that Carnival may have to pay up to 25% more to get the second and third ships.
All the ships are covered by loan guarantees from a state export financing agency.it's not clear whether they will actually be built.
that shippers will counter with a hail of lawsuits.the government makes good a threat to withdraw its guarantee commitments.
State loan guarantees are rarely a source of controversy.some bankers cited possible parallels between the Waertsilae Marine case and the collapse of Norway's state-owned Kongsberg Vappenfabrikk AS two years ago.
In that case, international banks and investors incurred big losses.they incorrectly believed the company's debt carried implicit state guarantees.
Doubts about the quality of state credit guarantees could reduce the competitive strength of Finnish companies in world markets where financing often is the key to winning orders.state-owned Finnish companies lacking formal state guarantees could face greater difficulty raising funds in international financial markets.
Under the rescue plan, Waertsilae sold 51% of its stake to a group of banks and pension funds.The government guaranteed financing to complete the order backlog and took control of the board.
to combine Waertsilae Marine with two other struggling firms.and ensure Finland's survival as a shipbuilding nation.
but was thwarted.the parent Waertsilae concern pulled out at the last minute.
but was thwarted.the parent Waertsilae concern pulled out at the last minute.
After the restructuring of Waertsilae Marine and bolstered by state loan guarantees, two big bank creditors, Union Bank of Finland and state-controlled Postipankki, resumed lending the shipyard working capital.the bankers got cold feet recently as government officials complained they had been misled about the shipyard's actual financial condition.
But the bankers got cold feet recently.government officials complained they had been misled about the shipyard's actual financial condition, and hinted the credit guarantees might be withdrawn.
it was the state's refusal to explicitly reaffirm the credit guarantees that led Union Bank and Postipankki to halt lending to Waertsilae Marine.in a boardroom showdown, state-appointed directors voted to file for bankruptcy, apparently under instructions from Finland's Industry Minister Ilkka Suominen.
Mr. Suominen had grown increasingly worried about the state's potential financial exposure.Waertsilae Marine's losses ballooned to more than double the figure estimated in August.
Mr. Suominen had grown increasingly worried about the state's potential financial exposure.Waertsilae Marine's losses ballooned to more than double the figure estimated in August.
The talks may drag on for weeks.any concrete result is announced.
One solution would be to sell the shipyard to an outsider.there appear to be few, if any, suitors.
But there appear to be few, if any, suitors.the potential losses make any rescue scheme unlikely.
Indeed, the potential losses make any rescue scheme unlikely.the politicians once again change tack and agree to pick up the bill.
the repayment or redemption of the long-term debt, and the outstanding Class A cumulative exchangeable preferred stock of Cable News Network, was made possible by an offering of about $750 million of debentures and notes and $900 million in bank borrowings.the company called its 12 7/8% senior subordinated notes due 1994, with an aggregate principal amount of $200 million, for redemption on Dec. 15.
it will temporarily idle its Arlington, Texas, assembly plant for one week beginning Monday because of slow sales.slow sales are forcing it to close its Detroit assembly plant the week beginning Monday.
The plant builds chassis for recreational vehicles.about 450 workers will be affected by the closing.
I think you'll see share prices go down.sterling now is under something of a cloud.
The pound immediately began to take a buffetting.the resignations were announced.
At 15%, base interest rates are the highest in eight years.the 7.6% annual inflation rate is by far the highest in the European Community.
Yesterday the index dove 32.5 points to close at 2129.4.the resignations were announced.
it will incur a second-half loss as a result of the market plunge.which will omit its second-half dividend.
The company didn't specify the size.company insiders estimated that the loss could approach the equivalent of $10 million.
The price plummeted.a proposed leveraged buy-out of the airline fell through.
The malaise has created a nostalgic longing for the uncomplicated days of the mid-1980s, before a rash of securities-firm mergers on the eve of the industry's deregulation in 1986.after trading losses in the mid-October market jolts here, many people will be lucky to have jobs at all, executives predict.
The mergers and acquisitions market has been a saving grace for the industry.uncertainties are beginning to mount even there.
Intra-European takeovers are expected to continue at their brisk pace.that stock market uncertainties in the U.S. may cause many European companies to mark time before bidding for American companies, in the hope that share prices will come down.
many European companies to mark time in the hope that share prices will come down.bidding for American companies.
industrial buyers in Europe have the opportunity of getting reasonable prices in the U.S.prices in the States go down.
If prices in the States go down, industrial buyers in Europe have the opportunity of getting reasonable prices in the U.S.Everybody and his sister have opened up M&A shops..It's difficult to see that there's going to be enough business to go around.
He didn't stop.he got to Jackson Hole, Wyo.
The percentage of your day spent twiddling your thumbs got greater.the work day kept getting longer.
My wife and I will stay through the skiing season.or the money runs out.
Not a great deal.unlike London, out here I've never heard anybody blow a car horn in anger.
the move could presage even harsher action by the banks.any move by the banks to take over Qintex Australia's management could threaten its ability to operate its national television network under Australian broadcast license rules.
But any move by the banks to take over Qintex Australia's management could threaten its ability to operate its national television network under Australian broadcast license rules.That could substantially reduce the value of the television assets.
when Mr. Skase agreed to buy MGM/UA Communications Co.the transaction faltered in September, when Qintex Australia was forced to increase its offer to US$1.5 billion following a counterbid from Rupert Murdoch.
The government is sharpening its newest weapon against white-collar defendants: the power to prevent them from paying their legal bills.defense lawyers are warning that they won't stick around if they don't get paid.
that they won't stick around.they don't get paid.
that the government may move to seize the money that Mr. Antar is using to pay legal fees.the founder and former chairman of Crazy Eddie Inc. is indicted.
he could be left without top-flight legal representation.the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar's assets.
he could be left without top-flight legal representation according to individuals familiar with the case.his attorneys are likely to quit.
If the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar's assets, he could be left without top-flight legal representation, because his attorneys are likely to quit, according to individuals familiar with the case.A seizure would make the case the largest -- and one of the first -- in which lawyers' fees have been confiscated in a prosecution unrelated to drugs.
The people who suffer in the short run are defendants.the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people, because there won't be a vigorous private bar to defend the Bill of Rights.
but the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people.there won't be a vigorous private bar to defend the Bill of Rights.
According to individuals familiar with Mr. Antar's case, prosecutors issued their warning this week.one of Mr. Antar's attorneys asked whether legal fees might be subject to seizure.
that any money he has used to pay attorneys derives from illegal activities.the money can be taken from the lawyers even after they are paid.
Therefore the money can be taken from the lawyers.they are paid.
his office "just responded to an attorney's question about whether we would go after attorney's fees.that is different from actually doing it, although we reserve that right.
and that is different from actually doing it.we reserve that right.
According to department policy, prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits.any attempts at seizure are made.
According to department policy, prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits before any attempts at seizure are made.criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers' fees.
that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial.the government can seize lawyers' fees.
Still, criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers' fees.They worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly, the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid.
that the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid.the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly.
that the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases.they are assured of being paid.
it is prudent to take all possible precautions against another such market collapse.like earthquakes, stock market disturbances will always be with us.
In general, markets function well and adjust smoothly to changing economic and financial circumstances.there are times when they seize up, and panicky sellers cannot find buyers.
But there are times when they seize up.panicky sellers cannot find buyers.
disorderly market conditions prevailed: The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened; trading in many stocks was suspended; orders took unduly long to be executed; and many specialists stopped trading altogether.the market tumbled.
The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened; trading in many stocks was suspended; orders took unduly long to be executed.many specialists stopped trading altogether.
As the market tumbled, disorderly market conditions prevailed: The margins between buying bids and selling bids widened; trading in many stocks was suspended; orders took unduly long to be executed; and many specialists stopped trading altogether.These failures contributed to the fall in the market averages.
Uncertainty extracted an extra risk premium.margin-calls triggered additional selling pressures.
His skis spread farther and farther apart.soon he is out of control.
After the 1987 crash, and as a result of the recommendations of many studies, "circuit breakers" were devised to allow market participants to regroup and restore orderly market conditions.It's doubtful whether circuit breakers do any real good.
In the additional time they provide even more order imbalances might pile up.would-be sellers finally get their broker on the phone.
It's doubtful, though, whether circuit breakers do any real good.an appropriate institution should be charged with the job of preventing chaos in the market: the Federal Reserve.
It lent money to banks and encouraged them to make funds available to brokerage houses.They lent money to their customers.
In 1987, it pumped billions into the markets through open market operations and the discount window..It lent money to banks and encouraged them to make funds available to brokerage houses..They, in turn, lent money to their customers -- who were supposed to recognize the opportunity to make a profit in the turmoil and buy shares.The Fed has the power to set margin requirements.
The Fed also has the power to set margin requirements.wouldn't it be more efficient and effective to supply such support to the stock market directly.
Instead of flooding the entire economy with liquidity.and increasing the danger of inflation.
the Fed could support the stock market directly by buying market averages in the futures market.stabilizing the market as a whole.
More carefully targeted intervention might actually reduce the need for government action.taking more direct action has the advantage of avoiding sharp increases in the money supply, such as happened in October 1987.
for the government or the central bank to buy or sell IBM or General Motors shares.the Fed could buy the broad market composites in the futures market.
Disorderly market conditions could be observed quite frequently in foreign exchange markets in the 1960s and 1970s.since the member countries of the International Monetary Fund agreed to the "Guidelines to Floating" in 1974, such difficulties have been avoided.
But such difficulties have been avoided.the member countries of the International Monetary Fund agreed to the "Guidelines to Floating" in 1974.
But such difficulties have been avoided.the member countries of the International Monetary Fund agreed to the "Guidelines to Floating" in 1974.
But since the member countries of the International Monetary Fund agreed to the "Guidelines to Floating" in 1974, such difficulties have been avoided.the mere existence of a market-stabilizing agency helps to avoid panic in emergencies.
don't fix it.it ain't broke.
If it ain't broke, don't fix it.this could be a case where we all might go broke if it isn't fixed.
where we all might go broke.it isn't fixed.
It would be damaging to industry and to the financial sector in general, to say nothing of banks.prudence does not guide the financing of leveraged transactions.
His remarks were distributed to the press.Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson announced his resignation last evening.
that the exposure of United Kingdom banks to leveraged deals haven't yet reached "worrying levels.in light of the risks involved in such transactions, banks should satisfy themselves that they have the skills to participate in this market and clear policy guidelines on acceptable levels of exposure to such transactions.
Intel Corp. 's most powerful computer chip has flaws that could delay several computer makers' marketing efforts.the "bugs" aren't expected to hurt Intel and most computer makers.
and are likely to be cleared up.most computers using the chip as their "brains" appear on the market sometime next year.
On Friday, Intel began notifying customers about the bugs which cause the chip to give wrong answers for some mathematical calculations.while International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. say the bugs will delay products, most big computer makers said the flaws don't affect them.
But most big computer makers said the flaws don't affect them.International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. say the bugs will delay products.
These bugs don't affect our schedule at all," he said.AST Research Inc. and Sun Microsystems Inc. said the bugs won't delay their development of 486-based machines.
But most big computer makers said the flaws don't affect them.concern about the chip may have been responsible for a decline of 87.5 cents in Intel's stock to $32 a share yesterday in over-the-counter trading, on volume of 3,609,800 shares, and partly responsible for a drop in Compaq's stock in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Wednesday.
You can do that.you're taking a risk.
Compaq still plans to announce new 486 products on Nov. 6.it doesn't know when its machine will be commercially available.
That's a break from Compaq tradition.the company doesn't announce products until they're actually at the dealers.
because the company doesn't announce products.they're actually at the dealers.
The problem is being ballyhooed.the 486 is Intel's future flagship.
Intel's microprocessors are the chips of choice in many of today's personal computers.the 80486 microprocessor is the spearhead of the company's bid to guard that spot in the next generation of machines.
the 486 is an extremely high-profile product.these sorts of bugs are not at all uncommon.
Intel clocks the chip's speed at 15 million instructions per second, or MIPs.while the chip's speed in processing power is dazzling, it's real strength lies in its software inheritance.
But it's real strength lies in its software inheritance.the chip's speed in processing power is dazzling.
that began dominating the market.IBM picked the 16-bit 8088 chip for its first personal computer.
Big personal computer makers and many makers of engineering workstations are developing 486-based machines.Of the big computer makers, only Apple Computer Co. bases its machines on Motorola chips.
it is significant.the joint venture affects only a small part of Bethlehem's operations.
it is significant.it marks the first time the nation's No. 2 steelmaker has joined forces with a foreign partner.
and even more so.the market has already peaked.
and even more so.the market has already peaked.
Bethlehem had little choice but to go with a European steelmaker.its competitors already have tapped the Japanese and South Korean industry leaders.
Bethlehem Steel Corp. has agreed in principle to form a joint venture with the world's second-largest steelmaker, Usinor-Sacilor of France, to modernize a portion of Bethlehem's ailing BethForge division.Bethlehem is working with the United Steelworkers union to consolidate BethForge's two machine shops and four heat-treatment facilities of the press-forge operations.
Bethlehem plans to concentrate its forgings business on nuclear fabrication, hardened steel and large-diameter steel rolls for rolling mills and selected custom-die applications.the consolidation is complete.
consider the case of Columbia Savings & Loan.you're still wondering about the causes of the slump in the junk-bond market.
Well it not only artificially increased the supply of these bonds in the market but also eliminated one of the few profitable investments thrifts have made.Congress in its recent S&L bailout mandated that the thrifts sell off all their junk-bond holdings by 1994.
Well it not only artificially increased the supply of these bonds in the market but also eliminated one of the few profitable investments thrifts have made.Congress in its recent S&L bailout mandated that the thrifts sell off all their junk-bond holdings by 1994.
Well it not only artificially increased the supply of these bonds in the market.but eliminated one of the few profitable investments thrifts have made.
Well, when Congress in its recent S&L bailout mandated that the thrifts sell off all their junk-bond holdings by 1994, it not only artificially increased the supply of these bonds in the market but also eliminated one of the few profitable investments thrifts have made.there is a grimly ironic twist to the Columbia loss.
Now, we regard this as a largely phony issue.the "long term" is nonetheless a big salon topic all around the Beltway.
Now, we regard this as a largely phony issue.but the "long term" is a big salon topic all around the Beltway.
that Columbia had this huge loss.the new congressionally mandated rules forced it to adjust the book value of its soon-to-be-sold junk bonds to the lower of either their cost or market value.
that let it fall into the hands of Congress.you want to wreck something that works.
Most of the 300 employees at the oil company's midtown headquarters building -- including much of senior management -- were unaware of the plan.informed at a morning meeting by Chairman Lawrence G. Rawl.
The shift won't affect operations.the pullout is an embarrassment to New York City officials.
Mobil Corp. is in the process of vacating its headquarters here.huge operations like J.C. Penney & Co. and Trans World Airlines have recently left.
We are dismayed.there's nothing we can do about it now.
New York authorities reacted with concern and even some anger to the idea of the nation's third-largest corporation leaving without giving them an opportunity to accommodate it.Dallas welcomed the move.
New York authorities reacted with concern and even some anger to the idea of the nation's third-largest corporation leaving without giving them an opportunity to accommodate it.Dallas welcomed the move.
City officials there had been were aware that a large company was moving in.negotiations had all been conducted through a law firm and under the code name "Everglades.
it was beyond all expectations.we were told it was Exxon.
Exxon will rent part of an existing office tower.the building is completed.
The company won't say how much it will save.during at its interim location, sources say it will likely pay rent of $10 to $15 per square foot.
it will cost less to run its headquarters at Las Colinas than in New York.In Texas, taxes and development costs are lower.
it will cost less to run its headquarters at Las Colinas than in New York In Texas, taxes and development costs are also lower.by eliminating the typically long New York commutes between office and home, management will expect employees to work 40 hours a week in Dallas, rather than a 35-hour work week in New York.
Canadian production of market pulp rose 1% in September from a year earlier.the industry operated at 87% of capacity.
Canadian production of market pulp rose 1% in September from a year earlier.the industry operated at 87% of capacity.
IMA Holdings Corp. completed its $3 billion acquisition of American Medical International Inc.The price includes assumption of about $1.4 billion in debt.
In March, American Medical received a $24-a-share offer to take the company private from an investor group including large holder M. Lee Pearce.It was considering a restructuring to help boost the stock price.
It received more offers.the auction was surprisingly won by IMA.
but the auction was surprisingly won by IMA, which bid $28 a share and asked Mr. Gilleland to stay on as an equity participant.IMA early this month lowered its offer to $26.50 a share amid turbulence in the junk bond market.
Then IMA early this month lowered its offer to $26.50 a share amid turbulence in the junk bond market.extending its offer four times waiting for a congressional tax ruling.
American Medical accepted the offer.indicating it had heard from two other suitors.
American Medical accepted the offer, meanwhile indicating it had heard from two other suitors.they never materialized and IMA completed the purchase yesterday.
But they never materialized.IMA completed the purchase yesterday.
that discretionary power could have an impact on the markets.rumors were to circulate about when the exchanges might be closed.
Mr. Breeden contended that discretionary power could have an impact on the markets if rumors were to circulate about when the exchanges might be closed..He added that the president already has the power to close the markets in an emergency.Mr. Brady argued that the SEC is closer to the markets and in a better position to understand when the exchanges are under such stress that they should be closed.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said that Congress should grant the Securities and Exchange Commission the power to close the stock markets in periods of crisis.Mr. Brady said he asked the Working Group on Financial Markets to determine whether futures margins are too low.
whether futures and equity margin requirements are consistent at these levels.whether futures margins are adequate.
This raises questions whether futures and equity margin requirements are consistent at these levels and whether futures margins are adequate," Mr. Brady said.Mr. Brady said he expects the leveraged buy-out phenomenon to "end under (its) own weight.
the LBO phenomenon will be a thing of the past.it won't stop completely.
to "see what the market has produced as a cure.taking any action.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady said that Congress should grant the Securities and Exchange Commission the power to close the stock markets in periods of crisis Separately, Mr. Brady said he asked the Working Group on Financial Markets to determine whether futures margins are too low Mr. Brady also said he expects the leveraged buy-out phenomenon to "end under (its) own weight.Mr. Brady agreed with senators' concerns about recent stock-market volatility, and said he realizes that the gyrations are scaring investors from investing in stocks.
Mr. Brady also agreed with senators' concerns about recent stock-market volatility, and said he realizes that the gyrations are scaring investors from investing in stocks.he added that individuals still are participating in the equity market indirectly through mutual funds and pension funds.
I do not have a view of whether we should do anything about program trading at this time.Mr. Brady endorsed the market-revision bill that both houses of Congress will try to push through this session.
That bill would require brokerage firms to disclose the financial positions of their holding companies, mandate large traders' reporting of program or block trades, and improve clearing and settlement of trades between the futures and stock markets.The bill would give the SEC the power to close the markets, a discretion that former SEC Chairman David Ruder wanted but Mr. Breeden doesn't.
The proposed legislation has a laudable goal: to assure the integrity of the U.S. futures markets.the proposal contains many provisions that could destroy important parts of the system it sets out to preserve.
The complex bill covers a wide range of provisions that would affect the funding and authority of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and would profoundly change the way the industry is regulated.The bill elevates even minor rule infractions to felonies and provides for recovery of punitive damages in civil lawsuits and arbitration cases without any showing of willful misconduct.
Many aspects of the bill are salutary, providing appropriate public safeguards that can and should be instituted throughout the industry.some of the bill's requirements, including broad representation on the exchanges' boards of directors and strong measures to prevent conflicts of interest, already have been put in place by the Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange and other futures exchanges.
Many aspects of the bill are salutary, providing appropriate public safeguards that can and should be instituted throughout the industry.Other aspects of the bill are either structured in ways that create unnecessary burdens for the industry or actually are harmful to the exchanges, the industry and ultimately the general public.
We would be delighted to have such a system in place today.is it realistic for Congress to mandate by a rigid deadline a system that has not yet been subjected to feasibility studies.
All foreign markets are aggressively courting U.S. business.several London markets already offer lower costs for trading in the same or very similar contracts.
doing business with independents.and hire their own salaried floor brokers.
One section of the bill would make all commodity brokerage firms and floor brokers liable for damages without willful misconduct Another measure makes commodity brokerage firms liable for violations committed by independent floor brokers who execute trades for them.under the bill, a number of legitimate, longstanding business practices would be arbitrarily banned, unless the CFTC were to take specific and timely action to permit them to continue.
Finally, under the bill, a number of legitimate, longstanding business practices would be arbitrarily banned.the CFTC were to take specific and timely action to permit them to continue.
Finally, under the bill, a number of legitimate, longstanding business practices would be arbitrarily banned, unless the CFTC were to take specific and timely action to permit them to continue.regulation will occur through inaction and happenstance, rather than through a normal deliberative procedure.
The affected practices include the placing of oral orders and trading between affiliated brokers.in some cases trading with affiliates may be the only way to obtain the best execution for a client.
The affected practices include the placing of oral orders and trading between affiliated brokers.precluded would be dual trading.
that these and other trading practices require proper regulation and supervision.each has too much potential value to the system to be banned by legislative fiat before the CFTC carefully considers all the consequences of a ban and what the regulatory alternatives are.
to be banned by legislative fiat.the CFTC carefully considers all the consequences of a ban and what the regulatory alternatives are.
the temptation becomes strong to summarily overhaul a market system that has served for more than 100 years.problems surface.
the temptation becomes strong to summarily overhaul a market system that has served for more than 100 years.problems surface.
On the hungry streets of Naguib Mahfouz's Cairo, life is nasty, brutish and wickedly entertaining.Mr. Mahfouz's Cairo has Sufi sheiks and saintly wives who look to God, not crime, for their salvation.
Mr. Mahfouz's Cairo also has Sufi sheiks and saintly wives who look to God, not crime, for their salvation.it is his portrait of Cairo low-life -- of charlatans and opium addicts, of streets filled with "dust, vegetable litter, and animal dung" -- that made his reputation, and won him the Nobel Prize in 1988.
Three novels, "The Beginning and the End" (412 pages, $19.95), "The Thief and the Dogs" (158 pages, $16.95), and "Wedding Song" (174 pages, $16.95), recently published by Doubleday offer an uneven sample of the 77-year-old Mr. Mahfouz's talent.they do show the range of a restless intellect whose 30-odd novels span five decades and include work of social realism, protest and allegory.
But they do show the range of a restless intellect whose 30-odd novels span five decades and include work of social realism, protest and allegory.They chart the evolution of a city that has grown tenfold in the author's lifetime, from a colonial outpost of fez-wearing pashas to a Third World slum choking on its own refuse.
The Beginning and the End," easily the best of the three, belongs to Mr. Mahfouz's "realistic" period.it is the one for which he is most renowned.
His daughter turns to dressmaking.to peddling herself for a few piasters.
One son sacrifices his own career.his avaricious brother can succeed.
One son sacrifices his own career so that his avaricious brother can succeed.another helps support the family with money siphoned from crime.
One son sacrifices his own career so that his avaricious brother can succeed.another helps support the family with money siphoned from crime.
A minor bureaucrat dies suddenly, dooming his family to poverty and eventual disgrace.The real tragedy lies not in the family's circumstances but in its concern for appearances.
Mourning for the father is overshadowed by the shame of burying him in a pauper's grave..The family moves to another house at night to conceal shabby belongings from neighbors.the successful son wishes his embarrassing siblings dead.
As a critique of middle-class mores, the story is heavy-handed.its unsentimental sketches of Cairo life are vintage Mahfouz.
We see, smell and hear slums filled with "the echoes of hawkers advertising their wares interspersed with abusive language, rattling coughs and the sound of people gathering spittle in their throats and spewing into the street.we meet engaging crooks, such as Hassan "the Head," famed for his head-butting fights, his whoring and his hashish.
Hassan comes to a bad end.so does almost everyone else in the book.
the prose is closer to Balzac's "Pere Goriot" than it is to "Arabian Nights.the setting is exotic.
Mr. Mahfouz began writing.there was no novelistic tradition in Arabic.
Mr. Mahfouz began writing when there was no novelistic tradition in Arabic.he modeled his work on Western classics.
unlike a writer such as Gabriel Garcia Marquez, who has a distinctive Latin voice, Mr. Mahfouz's style offers little that can be labeled "Egyptian.the familiarity of his style also makes his work accessible, as the streets of Cairo come alive for the Western reader as vividly as Dickens's London or Dostoevski's St. Petersburg.
In one sense, this limits him.But the familiarity of his style makes his work accessible.
But the familiarity of his style also makes his work accessible.the streets of Cairo come alive for the Western reader as vividly as Dickens's London or Dostoevski's St. Petersburg.
I am the hope and the dream, the redemption of cowards," he says in one of many interior monologues.he recalls the words of his Marxist mentor: "The people! Theft! The holy fire.
By 1961, Mr. Mahfouz's idealism had vanished or become twisted, as it has in Said.Cairo's spirited squalor has gone gray.
the plot and characters are not.the theme is compelling.
The Thief and the Dogs" is a pioneering work, the first stream-of-consciousness novel in Arabic.it is likely to disappoint Western readers.
The Thief and the Dogs" is a pioneering work, the first stream-of-consciousness novel in Arabic.The 1981 novel "Wedding Song" is experimental, and another badly aimed bullet.
The story of a playwright's stage debut unfolds in first-person monologues, in the manner of Faulkner's "The Sound and the Fury.the device obscures more than it illuminates.
The story of a playwright's stage debut unfolds in first-person monologues, in the manner of Faulkner's "The Sound and the Fury.the device obscures more than it illuminates.
Buried in the work is a meditation on the morality of art, and on the struggle for integrity in an unfair world.again, the themes get tangled in Mr. Mahfouz's elliptical storytelling.
Buried in the work is a meditation on the morality of art, and on the struggle for integrity in an unfair world.again, the themes get tangled in Mr. Mahfouz's elliptical storytelling.
The clutter of the 1940s remains.its color has drained away, and the will to overcome has been defeated.
but its color has drained away.the will to overcome has been defeated.
Characters complain ceaselessly about food queues, prices and corruption.the ubiquitous opium addict is now a cynical and selfish man who gripes: "Only government ministers can afford it these days.
Norwood has made "no detailed plans.it has engaged in talks with other shareholders.
Norwood is controlled by Daniel L. Barnett and Paul A. Reese, both officers of Boston-based Oasis Capital Management Inc., a small Boston money management firm.involved in the group is Robert F. Angelo, formerly Phoenix's senior vice president, field operations.
The tentative agreement provides for wage increases of 85 cents an hour retroactive to Sept. 25, 1989, and for increases of 19 cents, 70 cents and 35 cents an hour effective Jan. 1, 1991, 1992 and 1993, respectively.It provides for benefit adjustments, including a partial restoration of vacations and holidays, as well as work-rule changes to increase productivity.
to abolish it.Congress's idea of reform is to increase this slush fund by $28.4 million.
HUD has no paper work whatsoever on 30 of the projects, none of the others has been approved.not a single congressional hearing has been held on any of them.
HUD has no paper work whatsoever on 30 of the projects, none of the others has been approved and not a single congressional hearing has been held on any of them.four are in the Michigan district of Rep. Bob Traxler, the chairman of the House subcommittee that writes the HUD spending bill.
Of course, this kind of blatant congressional pork-barreling is called "constituent service" by Members.the same kind of noncompetitive favoritism at HUD is labeled "influence peddling.
The 40 pet projects were discovered buried in the appropriations bill for HUD and some other agencies.it returned from a conference committee that was called to resolve differences between the House and Senate versions.
They are often closed to the public.no minutes are taken.
We had intercepted during the year an estimated $5 billion street value of cocaine The GNP of the Bahamas is probably somewhere between one and two billion dollars.you get an idea of the leverage there and elsewhere that our market for drugs has brought about.
at least to contain them.they cannot be rehabilitated.
The efforts to get to the people who are addicted, try to rehabilitate them; if they cannot be rehabilitated, at least to contain them; to educate people, to strongly discourage use of drugs by people who are casual users and first users, to stop this process among the young -- all of these things are extremely important.that the conceptual base of the current program is flawed and the program is not likely to work.
that the conceptual base of the current program is flawed.the program is not likely to work.
We designed a comprehensive program.we worked hard on it.
You're looking at a guy whose motorcade was attacked in Bolivia by the drug terrorists.I'm personally a veteran of this war.
we're not really going to get anywhere.we can take the criminality out of the drug business and the incentives for criminality out of it.
you wipe out the criminal incentives, including, I might say, the incentive that the drug pushers have to go around and get kids addicted, so that they create a market for themselves.you do that.
to go around and get kids addicted.they create a market for themselves.
They won't have that incentive.they won't have that market.
that the conceptual base of the current program is flawed and the program is not likely to work.the conceptual base needs to be thought out in a different way.
I am catching your attention.read a bold and informative article in this September's issue of Science by Ethan Nadelmann on this subject.
Sometimes at a reception or cocktail party I advance these views.people head for somebody else.
Sometimes at a reception or cocktail party I advance these views.people head for somebody else.
I know that I'm shouting into the breeze here as far as what we're doing now.I feel that if somebody doesn't get up and start talking about this now, the next time around, when we have the next iteration of these programs, it will still be true that everyone is scared to talk about it.
that the next time around it will still be true that everyone is scared to talk about it.somebody doesn't get up and start talking about this now.
Personal spending, buoyed by a burst of automobile buying, was the main catalyst to the economy's expansion.trade, one of the economy's main forces in the past few years, showed a sharp deterioration.
Imports of goods and services soared.exports were flat.
many analysts expect it to slow considerably in the fourth quarter.the economy showed no change of pace from the second quarter.
to slow considerably in the fourth quarter.demand for autos falls, partly because of higher prices on models introduced last month.
to slow considerably in the fourth quarter.demand for autos falls, partly because of higher prices on models introduced last month.
the rise in the value of the U.S. dollar this year will further crimp progress in trade.it makes exports more expensive and imports cheaper.
the rise in the value of the U.S. dollar this year will further crimp progress in trade.business investment is expected to continue to be sluggish.
which have since turned up a bit.inflation probably will edge up from the third-quarter rate in the final three months of 1989.
inflation probably will edge up from the third-quarter rate in the final three months of 1989.the second quarter's 5% rate "will prove to have been this year's peak quarterly inflation rate.
Generally, the Bush administration expressed satisfaction with the economy's progress.it heads into its eighth year of sustained growth next month.
Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady called the 2.5% pace "good, solid growth.he expects the expansion to slow in the fourth quarter.
Inflation is lower than I think people expected it to be.I think that's good news.
Generally, the Bush administration expressed satisfaction with the economy's progress.administration officials were concerned over the bleak trade report.
that the economies of the country's major trading partners are strong.prices of U.S. products are still competitive.
But administration officials were concerned over the bleak trade report.Some analysts were disturbed by a pickup in the growth of business inventories.
it can hurt the economy.a buildup of these stocks adds to GNP.
it can hurt the economy.a pileup of unsold goods can lead to production cuts and layoffs.
it's anything that's going to cause a downturn in economic activity.it will slow production.
Devastation from Hurricane Hugo, which slammed into the Southeast coast in late September, diminished personal income by about $4 billion.the effect on the roughly $5 trillion economy "negligible.
The contract provides additional equipment for Northrop, the prime contractor on the missile.and supports a 1990 purchase of 90 missiles for follow-on flight tests.
From 1984 to 1987, its earnings soared six-fold, to $3.8 million, on a seven-fold increase in revenue, to $44.1 million.in 1988, it ran into a buzz saw: a Defense Department spending freeze.
Unlike larger contractors with a broad enough base to weather the downturn easily, these companies are suffering big drops in business.once-lucrative specialty niches in the massive military market erode or even disappear.
Unlike larger contractors with a broad enough base to weather the downturn easily, these companies are suffering big drops in business.once-lucrative specialty niches in the massive military market erode or even disappear.
As their varied strategies suggest, there is more than one way to respond to a disaster.it's too soon to tell whether the changes will pay off.
the Fairfax, Va., company, posted a 23% drop in earnings for this year's first half.quadrupling annual earnings over four years to $6.8 million in 1988.
he bought the company "more for its technology than its customer.the SDI anti-missile program recently awarded W.J. Schafer two contracts totaling $13.4 million.
three years of steady growth ended with a 69% drop in income in this year's first half.orders for its aircraft and submarine parts dwindled.
three years of steady growth ended with a 69% drop in income in this year's first half.orders for its aircraft and submarine parts dwindled.
why not make money off that trend.the Defense Department is so intent on saving money.
Among the company's current efforts: repairing old parts at 25% of the cost of replacing them.UNC is selling new parts, if needed, directly to the military instead of through a prime contractor.
UNC also is selling new parts directly to the military instead of through a prime contractor.needed.
At as little as one-third of the government's cost, the company is running a program to train Army helicopter pilots.It is taking over the maintenance of certain Navy aircraft with 40% fewer people than the military used.
In another approach, tiny Iverson Technology is trying to resume its growth by braving the new world of commercial products.QuesTech Inc., Falls Church, Va. has acquired some companies outside the military market.
QuesTech Inc., Falls Church, Va., also has acquired some companies outside the military market.it's trying to transfer its skill at designing military equipment to commercial ventures.
It was our first acquisition.it was a mistake.
A one-time write-off for booking nonexistent revenue was partly to blame.so were lower profits from a stingier contract with the Army and delays in getting paid.
The company not only merged three military-electronics manufacturing operations.but closed an unrelated plant that makes ordnance devices used in fighter planes and missiles.
I wouldn't say we're out of the business.we're not making as many {pyrotechnic devices} as we used to.
He was arrested on at least three other occasions in the '60s and '70s: for assault and unlawful confinement, for fraud and forgery of private documents, and for extortion.not indicted.
it has had no contact with Mr. Morishita since the stock purchase.that it's happy to deal with him.
Many of these financiers lend freely, often without demanding collateral.the interest rates they charge are often near Japan's 54.75% legal limit.
that some machikin "clutch on like hyenas" and even take over the client's company.the client can't repay the loan.
that some machikin "clutch on like hyenas" and even take over the client's company.the client can't repay the loan.
the stake was apparently the first of its kind for Aska, an entity separate from Aichi.the acquisition left many people wondering who this man was and what his intentions were.
It's not clear whether Aska plans to buy more shares.Christies is happy to see him become a long-term stockholder.
Mr. Morishita's main business certainly appears to be thriving.he won't disclose numbers.
That is.the company reported results correctly.
The Tokyo Regional Taxation Office declines to comment.Mr. Kori, the tycoon's secretary, says the problem simply resulted from a difference of opinion over what was considered income.
The small, wiry Mr. Morishita comes across as an outspoken man of the world.when asked what exactly he does in business, he immediately takes offense. "Are you stupid?" he snaps. "You should know what questions to ask to get people to answer.
he immediately takes offense.asked what exactly he does in business.
he immediately takes offense.asked what exactly he does in business.
Not many people know the details of Mr. Morishita's business.it's a source of rumors about shady dealings.
for instance, the gossipy weekly magazines are often quick to link the demise with Aichi.a small company goes belly-up.
for instance, the gossipy weekly magazines are often quick to link the demise with Aichi.a small company goes belly-up.
Not many people know the details of Mr. Morishita's business, but it's a source of rumors about shady dealings.When a small company goes belly-up the gossipy weekly magazines are often quick to link the demise with Aichi.
He spends most weekends flying his helicopter to one of his nine courses.He owns courses in the U.S. and France.
last year he attended a New York gala where his daughter made her debut.he wasn't keen on going.
The gruff financier recently started socializing in upper-class circles.He leads an opulent life style.
he offers one rule to success: Never gamble too far.Mr. Morishita says little about his business.
he might be flying out to Chicago tomorrow.he heard that soybeans make money today.
whose chief executive officer, James Gatward, will oversee the company.a successor is named.
that it had taken a huge $350 million provision for loan losses at the Arizona bank, the result of the state's worsening real-estate market.its bank in Texas reported a loss of $23.5 million for the quarter.
its bank in Texas also reported a loss of $23.5 million for the quarter.that its consumer banks in Oregon, California, Nevada and Washington performed well during the quarter and that nonperforming assets at these banks declined by 14% over the year-ago period.
that its consumer banks in Oregon, California, Nevada and Washington performed well during the quarter.that nonperforming assets at these banks declined by 14% over the year-ago period.
Private-sector union contracts signed in the third quarter granted slightly lower wage increases than those signed in the second quarter.wage increases still are running above last year's levels.
1989 will be the first year that the measure has shown an increase since 1981.this pattern continues.
The figures exclude lump-sum payments and cost-of-living adjustments.the actual wage increases may have been bigger.
the use of Filipino was deemed unwise by the predominantly middle class.we started the program six years ago.
Resistance to a national language comes primarily from members of the country's elite, who generally prefer English.while better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English, they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino.
Resistance to a national language comes primarily from members of the country's elite, who generally prefer English.while better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English, they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino.
But they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino.better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English.
But they are often slow to reveal that they are prejudiced against Filipino.better-off Filipinos are quick to cite the logic in using a language as widespread as English.
Resistance to a national language comes primarily from members of the country's elite.There's resentment.
They argue that their own languages should have equal weight.that the majority of the country's population understands Filipino more than any other language.
As they did.the Philippines was a colony of the U.S.
teachers for the most part teach in English.it is a foreign language for most Philippine children.
teachers for the most part teach in English, even though it is a foreign language for most Philippine children.they often speak one language at home, another at school.
there was an uproar from many legislators.President Corazon Aquino announced last year that the language would be used in official communications.
there was an uproar from many legislators.President Corazon Aquino announced last year that the language would be used in official communications.
When President Corazon Aquino, whose command of Filipino is spotty, announced last year that the language would be used in official communications, there was an uproar from many legislators, who continue to conduct debates mostly in English.many proponents of Filipino see resistance to the language finally crumbling.
With an audience totaling more than 400,000, "Batibot" consistently ranks in the country's top-four most-watched daytime programs.advertising revenue is inadequate.
Batibot" lacks the polish of "Sesame Street.the production is the equal of any local program.
But the production is the equal of any local program.the show's creativity makes up for any technological deficiencies.
CMS ENERGY Corp. said management would recommend to its board today that its common stock dividend be reinstated at a "modest level" later this year.CMS reported third-quarter net of $68.2 million, or 83 cents a share, up from $66.8 million, or 81 cents a share, a year ago.
it will sell 1.8 million of the new shares.Home Nutritional Services will sell the remaining 2.2 million.
it will sell 1.8 million of the new shares.Home Nutritional Services will sell the remaining 2.2 million.
to be sold as part of the power-tool manufacturer's effort to reduce debt and consolidate operations.it acquired Emhart earlier this year.
The move significantly expanded Black & Decker's product line.but significantly increased its debt load.
Earlier this year, Black & Decker put three Emhart businesses on the auction block: the information and electronics segment, the Dynapert electrical assembly business and Mallory Capacitors.it would sell two other undisclosed Emhart operations if it received the right price.
it would sell two other undisclosed Emhart operations.it received the right price.
Our divestiture program is on schedule.we remain confident that we will achieve our stated goal of over $1 billion in net proceeds.
The company's stock plunged.it first announced that it planned to acquire Emhart.
The company's stock plunged.it first announced that it planned to acquire Emhart.
this law has required that anyone proposing a merger must make a filing describing the effects on all relevant markets.the bad days of Big is Bad antitrust enforcement.
that anyone proposing a merger must make a filing describing the effects on all relevant markets.The Hart-Scott filing is reviewed and any antitrust concerns usually met.
The Hart-Scott filing is then reviewed.any antitrust concerns usually met.
that the proceeds will be used to increase the budgets of the antitrust division at Justice and the Federal Trade Commission.this would "establish the precedent that the government may charge parties for the privilege of being sued regardless of whether the government prevails.
that as Navigation Mixte chairman, he is prohibited by takeover regulations from organizing his own defense or doing anything besides managing current company business.he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in Navigation Mixte.
they can expect strong dividends again next year.holders avoid tendering to Paribas.
that over the past 20 years, Mr. Fournier has built his company through astute stock-market activity and has warded off at least three takeover attempts.This time he could face a real battle.
Paribas still needs the go-ahead from the Commission des Operations de Bourse, a government regulatory agency.that is considered likely.
If holders avoid tendering to Paribas, he added, they can expect strong dividends again next year.Mr. Fournier noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas's core of shareholders when Paribas was denationalized in 1987, and said it now holds just under 5% of Paribas's shares.
that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas's core of shareholders.Paribas was denationalized in 1987.
he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10%.he realized that Paribas's intentions weren't friendly.
he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10%.he realized that Paribas's intentions weren't friendly.
but he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10%.the bid was launched.
The petition is still pending.Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas.
The petition is still pending.Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas.
the large institutions that hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte's capital all strongly support him.they aren't so sure.
they aren't so sure.that it will remain neutral.
it will offer 1,850 francs ($296.95) each for Navigation Mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights, and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued July 1, which will receive only partial dividends this year.it is to offer three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share.
The zero-coupon subordinated notes have no periodic interest payments..Each note is being offered at $308.32 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity, representing an 8% yield to maturity.each note can be converted into Blockbuster Entertainment common stock at a rate of 13.851 shares per note.
that only seven managed to avoid paying federal income taxes last year compared with 40 in 1986, the last year the old tax rules were in effect, and 16 in 1987, when some of the new tax provisions went into effect.41 companies that paid no federal income tax from 1981 through 1985 -- despite billions of dollars of profits -- ended up paying an average of 27.9% of their income in federal taxes in 1988.
The report, released yesterday, comes.Congress is considering a number of special tax breaks only three years after the sweeping tax-revision legislation abolished or curtailed many loopholes.
as Congress is considering a number of special tax breaks.the sweeping tax-revision legislation abolished or curtailed many loopholes.
to defer taxes.a project was completed.
In the corporate realm, the 1986 law abolished the investment-tax credit, scaled back use of an accounting method that allowed large contractors to defer taxes until a project was completed and strengthened the so-called alternative minimum tax, a levy to ensure all money-making businesses pay some federal tax.corporations are now shouldering a bigger share of the tax burden, as the authors of the 1986 law hoped.
Tax reform is working Under the new tax-reform law, the days of widespread, wholesale corporate tax avoidance have come to an end.Kroger Co., Pinnacle West Capital Corp., CSX Corp., Illinois Power Co., Media General Inc., Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp. and Gulf States Utilities Co., didn't pay any federal income tax last year although they garnered a total of $1.2 billion in profits.
Still, Kroger Co., Pinnacle West Capital Corp., CSX Corp., Illinois Power Co., Media General Inc., Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp. and Gulf States Utilities Co., didn't pay any federal income tax last year.they garnered a total of $1.2 billion in profits.
Still, Kroger Co., Pinnacle West Capital Corp., CSX Corp., Illinois Power Co., Media General Inc., Santa Fe Southern Pacific Corp. and Gulf States Utilities Co., didn't pay any federal income tax last year.six of those companies received refunds.
helping galvanize efforts to overhaul the tax code.even though companies are paying more taxes, many are still paying less than the statutory rate.
But many are still paying less than the statutory rate.companies are paying more taxes.
But many are still paying less than the statutory rate.45 companies paid effective tax rates of below 10% of their income.
significant corporate tax avoidance continues.the overall picture is very encouraging.
In search of buyers for upscale department-store chains such as Bloomingdale's and Saks Fifth Avenue, investment bankers are turning to -- who else?.The Japanese.so far Japan's cash-rich retailers are proving to be cautious shoppers.
We have the money to buy.operating a U.S. department-store chain would be very difficult.
The Japanese have watched the Europeans and Canadians stumble in the U.S. market.they fret that business practices that have won them huge profits at home won't translate into success in the U.S.
The Japanese have watched the Europeans and Canadians stumble in the U.S. market.they fret that business practices that have won them huge profits at home won't translate into success in the U.S.
the main reason they are reluctant to jump into the fray in the U.S. is that -- unlike manufacturing -- retailing is extremely sensitive to local cultures and life styles.Japanese department stores are wary of attracting negative publicity.
Japanese department stores are also wary of attracting negative publicity..After Sony Corp. 's recent headline-grabbing acquisition of Columbia Pictures, many say it makes good political sense to lie low.for those with a long-term eye on the vast U.S. retail market, this is a tempting time to look for bargains.
Britain's B.A.T Industries PLC is trying to unwind its U.S. retailing operations.debt-ridden Campeau Corp. of Toronto is giving up the 17-store Bloomingdale's group.
Every department store in Japan is taking a look.that Japan is about to embark on a major buying binge.
that Japan is about to embark on a major buying binge.speculation heated up yesterday when Tokyu Department Store Co. confirmed a report in Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading business daily, that Tokyu is talking with Campeau about buying Bloomingdale's.
that Tokyu is talking with Campeau about buying Bloomingdale's.no agreement had been reached.
that Tokyu is talking with Campeau about buying Bloomingdale's.is Tokyu the only Japanese retailer interested in Bloomingdale's.
Seven Japanese department-store groups were approached by investment bankers representing Bloomingdale's chairman, Marvin Traub.more than half are seeking additional information on the group.
Federated ran into a cash crunch.it was acquired last year by Campeau.
Federated ran into a cash crunch.it was acquired last year by Campeau.
Traub needs a Japanese and a European partner to make it work.you look at the economics.
First they set up overseas merchandising offices to import items and track new fashion trends.they opened small gift shops mostly aimed at Japanese tourists.
Last March, Isetan invested 1.5 billion yen ($10.6 million) in a venture with Barney's Inc., an up-scale New York specialty clothier.Mitsukoshi recently increased its equity stake in Tiffany & Co. to 13%.
that his company's image is similar to Saks's.that there is some interest in the idea.
Eiji Nakazato, a Takashimaya general manager, admits that his company's image is similar to Saks's and that there is some interest in the idea.he stops there.
We'd like to do business in America.it looks tough.
the regular 1988 deficit amounted to $43.5 million.extraordinary expenditures for its radio station and restoration of buildings increased the deficit to $57.2 million.
people are going to relax and say well that's fine, the Holy See is out of the hole.we say we covered our deficit this year.
Now that we say we covered our deficit this year, people are going to relax and say well that's fine, the Holy See is out of the hole.we're . . . going to be in the exact same situation next year.
Chinese officials are trying to use the Canton Trade Fair to lure back overseas traders after the bloody crackdown on dissent.attendance is down from previous years.
They are angry about the government.they hold back the goods.
that 21,000 guests visited during the first five days, a 10% drop from the spring exhibition.that the number of foreign businessmen was greater than the previous fair.
Some lousy earnings reports whacked the stock market.bond prices fell only slightly and the dollar rose a little against most major currencies.
but bond prices fell only slightly.the dollar rose a little against most major currencies.
that third-quarter corporate earnings haven't been very good.the effect hit home particularly hard yesterday.
that third-quarter corporate earnings haven't been very good.the effect hit home particularly hard yesterday.
Compaq Computer nose-dived $8.625 a share, to $100, and pulled other technology issues lower after reporting lower-than-expected earnings.the stock market closed Wednesday.
Later yesterday the nation's major auto makers added to the gloom.they each reported their core auto operations were net losers in the third quarter.
analysts are increasingly predicting much more sluggish growth -- and therefore more corporate earnings disappointments -- for the fourth quarter.the economy grew an estimated 2.5% in the third quarter, in line with expectations.
they were cheered by inflation measures in the data that showed prices rising at a modest annual rate of 2.9%.bond investors would have preferred growth to be a little slower.
The 249-166 roll call came.the chamber approved a compromise bill allocating $17.2 billion to the departments of State, Justice, and Commerce in fiscal 1990 and imposing increased fees on business interests making filings with the government.
An estimated $40 million would come annually from a new $20,000 charge on pre-merger notifications to the Justice Department.Securities and Exchange Commission filing fees would rise by 25% to fund a $26 million increase in the agency's budget.
I don't know how anyone can oppose this.you're for paying the claims.
No payments would be made this year.beginning in fiscal 1991, the bill commits the government to annual payments of as much as $500 million until the total liability of $1.25 billion is met.
but the bill commits the government to annual payments of as much as $500 million.the total liability of $1.25 billion is met.
among the 53 Democrats voting against treating the payments as an entitlement, 42 came from the 13 states in the Old Dixiecrat South and its borders.Republicans led the opposition.
The odd mix of departments in the underlying bill makes it one of the more eclectic of the annual appropriations measures.it is a lightning rod for a running battle over the fate of the Legal Services Corp.
but would sharply curb the power of the current board.successors are agreed to by the Bush administration.
The conservative bent of the incumbent appointees, named by former President Reagan, has divided Republicans.on back-to-back roll calls, 206-199 and 223-178, the Appropriations Committee leadership turned back efforts to weaken or strip the proposed restrictions first added by Sen. Warren Rudman (R., N.H.).
which both face serious cuts.the income isn't realized.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation is slated to receive $30 million by charging for fingerprint services in civil cases.the judiciary will rely on another $32 million from bankruptcy charges, including a 33% increase in the current filing fee.
The $17.2 billion total for the bill doesn't include an estimated $1.2 billion in supplemental anti-drug funds approved by the House-Senate conference yesterday.the rush of money is already provoking jealousy among states competing for assistance.
The House agreed to defer for a year a scheduled 50% increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants.by a 287-123 margin, the chamber stripped a Senate initiative to raise the minimum grant for smaller states, such as New Hampshire and Delaware, to $1.6 million from $500,000.
Sen. Phil Gramm (R., Texas) insisted last week that the money be preserved.a House-Senate conference on yesterday's bill rescinded $11.8 million in unexpended funds for a Fort Worth, Texas, economic development project backed by former Speaker James Wright.
Sen. Phil Gramm (R., Texas) insisted last week that the money be preserved.a House-Senate conference on yesterday's bill rescinded $11.8 million in unexpended funds for a Fort Worth, Texas, economic development project backed by former Speaker James Wright.
The measure includes $2 million secured by Mr. Rudman for a marine-research project at the University of New Hampshire.Sen. Ernest Hollings (D., S.C.) used his power to add $10 million for an advanced technology initiative in the Commerce Department.
The Big Three U.S. auto makers posted losses in their core North American automotive businesses for the third quarter.expectations of continued slow vehicle sales and price wars are casting a pall over the fourth period.
The bleak automotive results were offset by strong earnings from some non-automotive operations.the combined profit of Ford, Chrysler Corp. and General Motors Corp. fell 44% to $1.02 billion from $1.83 billion a year earlier, excluding a one-time gain of $309 million at Chrysler from the sale of Mitsubishi Motors Corp. stock.
GM's common closed at $44.375 a share, down 50 cents, Ford fell 37.5 cents to end at $47.50.Chrysler eased 37.5 cents to $22.25.
the Big Three, with GM in the lead, slashed North American production and launched a retail discounting blitz.Japanese auto makers gained market share.
The price war peaked in the third quarter according to industry officials.Big Three factory discounts climbed to more than $1,000 a vehicle.
As Japanese auto makers gained market share, the Big Three, with GM in the lead, slashed North American production and launched a retail discounting blitz.the costly efforts did little to slow Japanese market gains, and domestic car sales have plunged 19% since the Big Three ended many of their programs Sept. 30.
But the costly efforts did little to slow Japanese market gains.domestic car sales have plunged 19% since the Big Three ended many of their programs Sept. 30.
and domestic car sales have plunged 19%.the Big Three ended many of their programs Sept. 30.
and domestic car sales have plunged 19%.the Big Three ended many of their programs Sept. 30.
the cuts will go deeper and incentives will sprout again.sales don't pick up.
the cuts will go deeper.incentives will sprout again.
The U.S. automotive loss was a sharp reversal for a company that had reeled off 12 consecutive quarters of improved earnings until the 1989 second quarter.that cost-cutting and tight production capacity will make results "better in this downturn than in prior downturns.
that cost-cutting and tight production capacity will make results "better in this downturn than in prior downturns," when Ford had net losses.Ford expects the U.S. economy to weaken through the end of 1990, causing weaker sales and production.
Ford expects the U.S. economy to weaken through the end of 1990, causing weaker sales and production.fourth-quarter profit will come in below 1988 results.
As a result, fourth-quarter profit will come in below 1988 results.the drop won't be as sharp as the 44% third-quarter decline.
He said the loss wasn't "that much different" from Ford's $37 million loss on U.S. automotive operations.he declined to be specific.
Detroit-based GM doesn't issue separate quarterly earnings for the North American automotive business.analysts estimated that GM had a loss of as much as $300 million on domestic vehicle operations.
An 8.5% drop in North American factory sales of cars and trucks cut into revenue.rebates to dealers and customers more than offset gains from price increases on 1990 model vehicles delivered during the period.
Heavy losses in North American auto operations sent GM's net tumbling to $516.9 million from a record $859.2 million.GM's results also illustrate the increasing diversity of its operations.
An 8.5% drop in North American factory sales of cars and trucks cut into revenue, and rebates to dealers and customers more than offset gains from price increases on 1990 model vehicles delivered during the period.But GM's results illustrate the increasing diversity of its operations.
In one breakdown, GM attributed half of its net to its two big technology units, Electronic Data Systems Corp. and GM Hughes Electronics Corp.overseas auto operations are on track to exceed last year's record full-year net of $2.7 billion.
In one breakdown, GM attributed half of its net to its two big technology units, Electronic Data Systems Corp. and GM Hughes Electronics Corp.overseas auto operations are on track to exceed last year's record full-year net of $2.7 billion.
This cushion could come in handy.GM has to trim fourth-quarter North American production schedules more than the already scheduled 9.5%.
it's unlikely the company will surpass last year's $4.9 billion full-year profit.net for the first nine months was up 1.9% to $3.52 billion on revenue of $95.57 billion.
so named.it does not fit neatly into a category such as tragedy, comedy or history.
Last season, Hartford Stage director Mark Lamos mounted a production at Lincoln Center.currently two other productions overlap with Mr. Boyd's.
Angelo summarily condemns Claudio to death.Angelo hears that the young man Claudio has made his fiancee pregnant before he could marry her.
Angelo summarily condemns Claudio to death.Angelo hears that the young man Claudio has made his fiancee pregnant before he could marry her.
that the young man Claudio has made his fiancee pregnant.he could marry her.
however the obdurate ruler immediately falls in love with her and, in a supreme act of hypocrisy, demands that Isabella yield up her virtue to him in exchange for her brother's life.Claudio's sister, Isabella, a novitiate in a convent, goes to Angelo to plead her brother's case.
When Angelo hears that the young man Claudio has made his fiancee pregnant before he could marry her, Angelo summarily condemns Claudio to death.When Claudio's sister, Isabella, a novitiate in a convent, goes to Angelo to plead her brother's case, the obdurate ruler immediately falls in love with her and, in a supreme act of hypocrisy, demands that Isabella yield up her virtue to him in exchange for her brother's life.
When, however, Claudio's sister, Isabella, a novitiate in a convent, goes to Angelo to plead her brother's case, the obdurate ruler immediately falls in love with her and, in a supreme act of hypocrisy, demands that Isabella yield up her virtue to him in exchange for her brother's life.the Duke appears on the scene disguised as a friar and becomes involved in a series of intrigues that has everyone fearing the worst possible outcome until the Duke arranges a last minute reprieve for all concerned.
that has everyone fearing the worst possible outcome.the Duke arranges a last minute reprieve for all concerned.
a prison cell, consisting of an enlarged wire cage, rolls forward on iron wheels on the platform.the action requires.
the performers bring the dramatic high points to life with intense energy and intelligence.Isabella (Ellen Lauren) confronts her brother Claudio (Matt Loney) in his cell, explaining the price she has been asked to secure his freedom.
the performers bring the dramatic high points to life with intense energy and intelligence.Isabella and the disguised Duke (Philip Kerr) conspire to trick Angelo.
the performers bring the dramatic high points to life with intense energy and intelligence.and Mariana (Annalee Jefferies), a woman wronged by Angelo, confronts him with his past misdeeds.
the results are far less satisfactory.however, he decides to be modern.
At such moments Mr. Boyd makes it clear that he has the capacity to be a superior interpreter of Shakespeare.When he decides to be modern, or more accurately, when he decides to be trendy, the results are far less satisfactory.
When, however, he decides to be modern.more accurately, when he decides to be trendy.
the results are far less satisfactory.he decides to be trendy.
It's a valid approach.it puts a heavy burden on the director to show an uncommon degree of imagination and taste.
he is brought on stage nude except for the manacles on his wrists and ankles.Claudio is arrested.
Lucio not only slaps the mother superior on her rear, but brings along a voluptuous companion (Jill Powell), not in Shakespeare's script, to undulate lasciviously.the opportunist Lucio (Jack Stehlin) visits the convent to inform Isabella of her brother's fate.
When Claudio is arrested, he is brought on stage nude except for the manacles on his wrists and ankles..When the opportunist Lucio (Jack Stehlin) visits the convent to inform Isabella of her brother's fate, Lucio not only slaps the mother superior on her rear, but brings along a voluptuous companion (Jill Powell), not in Shakespeare's script, to undulate lasciviously.the pimp Pompey (Glen Allen Pruett), dressed in black leather and a prominent codpiece, indulges in enough obscene gestures and pelvic thrusts to launch a space probe.
When Claudio is arrested, he is brought on stage nude except for the manacles on his wrists and ankles..When the opportunist Lucio (Jack Stehlin) visits the convent to inform Isabella of her brother's fate, Lucio not only slaps the mother superior on her rear, but brings along a voluptuous companion (Jill Powell), not in Shakespeare's script, to undulate lasciviously.the pimp Pompey (Glen Allen Pruett), dressed in black leather and a prominent codpiece, indulges in enough obscene gestures and pelvic thrusts to launch a space probe.
The problem here is not in the concept but in its lack of discrimination.The inclusion at one point of a list of glitzy modern-day malefactors, ranging from Jim Bakker and Leona Helmsley to Zsa Zsa Gabor, is a bid for a cheap laugh unworthy of Mr. Boyd's ability.
The problem here is not in the concept but in its lack of discrimination.Despite the excesses the scorecard for the production has many more pluses than minuses.
Admittedly last season's runaway hit, "Steel Magnolias," helped a lot.so did cost cutting and other measures insisted on by the board.
it received.its founder, Nina Vance, was at the height of her powers.
Only time will tell if Mr. Boyd can restore to the Alley the acclaim it received when its founder, Nina Vance, was at the height of her powers.it is clear he is going to give it a shot.
Only time will tell if Mr. Boyd can restore to the Alley the acclaim it received when its founder, Nina Vance, was at the height of her powers.it is clear he is going to give it a shot.
to come up with at least 60 votes.they can address the issue.
he intends to use Senate procedures to force advocates of the tax cut to come up with at least 60 votes before they can address the issue.neither Democrats nor Republicans are predicting that the capital-gains forces can produce enough votes.
The 60-vote requirement will be there.they don't have the 60 votes.
GOP leaders continued to press for a vote on the amendment to the Eastern Europe aid measure.they threatened to try to amend any other revenue bill in the Senate with the capital-gains provision.
They accuse the Democrats of unfairly using Senate rules to erect a 60-vote hurdle..Democrats counter that the Republicans have often used the same rules to suit their own ends.The two sides traded accusations about the cost of the Packwood plan.
that the proposal was fraught with budget gimmickry that would lose billions of dollars in the long run.which would create a new type of individual retirement account.
The Packwood proposal would reduce the tax depending on how long an asset was held.It would create a new IRA that would shield from taxation the appreciation on investments made for a wide variety of purposes, including retirement, medical expenses, first-home purchases and tuition.
The transaction, for cash and stock, would represent the biggest European takeover since 1980 for New York-based Marsh & McLennan, the world's largest insurance broker.It's the first major sign of the long-awaited consolidation in the European insurance industry as the European Community Commission moves toward a single market by 1992.
It's also the first major sign of the long-awaited consolidation in the European insurance industry.the European Community Commission moves toward a single market by 1992.
Earlier this year, New York Life Insurance Co. agreed to acquire Windsor Group Ltd., a first step toward establishing a presence in the European market ahead of 1992.most U.S. insurers haven't rushed to change the way they do business in Europe because they believe the European market will still be dominated by a handful of domestic companies.
most U.S. insurers haven't rushed to change the way they do business in Europe.they believe the European market will still be dominated by a handful of domestic companies.
he sought the combination.all our large clients in Germany are becoming European companies or multinational companies and they expect an insurance broker" to serve them as well in Paris as in Germany.
because "all our large clients in Germany are becoming European companies or multinational companies.they expect an insurance broker" to serve them as well in Paris as in Germany.
the U.S. market is strengthening.related computer technology gains in sophistication and quality.
net jumped to $87 million, or $2.02 a share, from $58 million, or $1.40 a share, a year earlier..Sales increased 36% to $683 million from $502 million.The latest quarter's results included a pretax gain of $13.7 million, or 20 cents a share, in the carrying value of the company's investment in Conner Peripherals Inc. and a $7.6 million gain, or 11 cents a share, from the sale of one million Conner shares.
Net for the nine months was $254 million, or $5.94 a share, up 56% from $163 million, or $4.06 a share, a year earlier.Net for the year-earlier nine months included a gain of $9.7 million, or 15 cents a share, in the carrying value of the Conner investment.
it agreed to be acquired by Star States Corp. for stock valued at $13.75 a share, or about $24.4 million.the agreement gives Star States the option to acquire 588,300 of Diversified's 1,774,326 shares outstanding "under certain circumstances.
it will select the plant site early next year.production is expected to begin in 1991.
Call Jim Wright's office in downtown Fort Worth, Texas, these days.the receptionist still answers the phone, "Speaker Wright's office.
Call Jim Wright's office in downtown Fort Worth, Texas, these days.the receptionist still answers the phone, "Speaker Wright's office.
Not all the scandal-tripped have enjoyed soft landings.many have.
Mr. Wright by law enjoys a $120,000 annual office expense allowance, three paid staffers, up to $67,000 for stationery and telephones and continued use of the franking privilege.he were still in his old job.
Mr. Wright by law enjoys a $120,000 annual office expense allowance, three paid staffers, up to $67,000 for stationery and telephones and continued use of the franking privilege..Not to mention a generous federal pension.There is a busy schedule of speaking engagements at $10,000 a pop, at tony places including the Yale Political Union.
Mr. Deaver confessed to his alcoholism during his trial on perjury charges.He is a recovering workaholic.
everybody lays off.someone says, 'I've turned to God.
When someone says, 'I've turned to God, ' everybody lays off.have Charles Colson and Jeb Magruder launched successful post-Watergate careers at the pulpit.
Thus have Charles Colson and Jeb Magruder launched successful post-Watergate careers at the pulpit.it doesn't always work so smoothly.
SEC enforcement chief John Fedders retreated to a Trappist monastery in rural Virginia.allegations surfaced in a 1985 divorce contest that he had beaten his wife.
He is now in solo law practice in Washington.his fees have been meager and he failed in efforts to win a chunk of his ex-wife's royalties on her tell-all book.
but his fees have been meager.he failed in efforts to win a chunk of his ex-wife's royalties on her tell-all book.
he resigned.media reports questioned the propriety of a 1986 junk-bond investment.
he resigned almost immediately after media reports questioned the propriety of a 1986 junk-bond investment.any official investigations took hold.
Anne Burford, the former EPA chief who resigned under fire in 1983 during a flap with Congress, was kayoed in the confrontation.she was never charged with official wrondgoing.
when, in 1986, she was charged on allegations of public drunkenness.and cleared.
You could say she survived.it wasn't easy on her.
Rita Jenrette, the former wife of Abscam-indicted Rep. John Jenrette, has yet to hit it big in Hollywood.with roles in such movies as "Zombie Island Massacre" and "Aunt Ida's Bikini Shop," she is doing a lot better than her former husband.
Richard Secord, the retired Air Force general felled in the Iran-Contra scandal, is all but ruined -- forced to sell his Virginia home and pull his kids out of college, according to a recent fund-raising appeal sent out on his behalf.his co-defendant in the case -- also a former military officer by the name of Oliver North -- has been busily and profitably burnishing his involvement in the affair.
All Bets Are Off.Sex Is Involved.
Sex scandals make people look careless and silly.one of the worst sins in Washington is to be laughed at.
Sex scandals make people look careless and silly, and one of the worst sins in Washington is to be laughed at.Rep. Gerry Studds of Massachusetts was handily re-elected because of the candor with which he handled revelations that he had sex with a male congressional page in 1983.
who lost his seat in 1980.he was caught soliciting sex from a 16-year-old boy.
who lost his seat in 1980.he was caught soliciting sex from a 16-year-old boy.
the private sector sometimes will.the political establishment is reluctant to forgive sexual misadventures.
Gucci Gulch -- the fabled halls of the Capitol inhabited by lobbyists and their imported shoes -- offers a welcome environment for fallen officials.all else fails.
Gucci Gulch -- the fabled halls of the Capitol inhabited by lobbyists and their imported shoes -- offers a welcome environment for fallen officials.all else fails.
After a few weeks in seclusion, Mr. Mack opened a consulting firm.not to enable him to directly lobby.
After a few weeks in seclusion, Mr. Mack opened a consulting firm, but not to enable him to directly lobby; that would require him to disclose his clients by registering as a lobbyist.Mr. Mack says he talks to "30 members of Congress a week.
to come to the Deaver home.his troubles erupted.
I can always auction it off at Sotheby's.things get really tough.
The expected Canadian move has been welcomed by the Bush administration.Canada has opposed such U.S. actions as the trade embargo against Cuba, the invasion of Grenada and the military support for Nicaragua's Contra guerrillas.
it hasn't been a Washington priority.the U.S. also has supported Canadian membership.
Latin American countries have long urged Canada to join the OAS in the hopes that it would be a counterweight to the U.S.Even though the U.S. has supported Canadian membership.
Canada, at times, could be an awkward OAS partner for the U.S.its United Nations voting record is an indication.
that Latin American countries would be "profoundly disappointed.Canada were to follow the U.S. lead in the OAS.
Cuba has been suspended from OAS membership.the organization's members are discussing Cuba's reinstatement.
Older movies have plenty of violence.it is portrayed in keeping with the more restrictive social conventions of the time.
Older movies have plenty of violence, though it is portrayed in keeping with the more restrictive social conventions of the time.in which the entire comedy is based on actor Dennis Price's murdering eight titled relatives (all played by Alec Guinness) because they snubbed his mother and stand in the way of his acquiring the family title.
on actor Dennis Price's murdering eight titled relatives (all played by Alec Guinness).they snubbed his mother and stand in the way of his acquiring the family title.
For example, one of my favorite movies is the 1949 British comedy "Kind Hearts and Coronets," in which the entire comedy is based on actor Dennis Price's murdering eight titled relatives (all played by Alec Guinness) because they snubbed his mother and stand in the way of his acquiring the family title.one of the most popular comedy genres of the 1930s and '40s was the "murder mystery/ comedy." The "Thin Man" series of movies, as well as many others, based their entire comedic appeal on the star detectives' witty quips and puns as other characters in the movies were murdered.
For example, one of my favorite movies is the 1949 British comedy "Kind Hearts and Coronets," in which the entire comedy is based on actor Dennis Price's murdering eight titled relatives (all played by Alec Guinness) because they snubbed his mother and stand in the way of his acquiring the family title.one of the most popular comedy genres of the 1930s and '40s was the "murder mystery/ comedy." The "Thin Man" series of movies, as well as many others, based their entire comedic appeal on the star detectives' witty quips and puns as other characters in the movies were murdered.
modern comedies contain violence, sex and foul language to any greater degree than other recent movies.Mr. Knight made a poor choice in picking "A Fish Called Wanda" as an example of the deplorable state of modern comedy movies.
and peer in the window of a Boeing 747 -- from the outside.it takes off.
Sex and violence are routinely included.they are irrelevant to the script.
Sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script.high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development.
Many modern scriptwriters seem to be incapable of writing drama, or anything else, without foul-mouthed cursing..Sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script, and high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development.we have a movie and television industry that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie unless it carries a PG-13 or R rating.
that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie.it carries a PG-13 or R rating.
In short, we have a movie and television industry that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie unless it carries a PG-13 or R rating.copious amounts of gratuitous sex, violence and gutter language are included as a crutch.
Many modern scriptwriters seem to be incapable of writing drama, or anything else, without foul-mouthed cursing..Sex and violence are routinely included even when they are irrelevant to the script, and high-tech special effects are continually substituted for good plot and character development..In short, we have a movie and television industry that is either incapable or petrified of making a movie unless it carries a PG-13 or R rating..Hence copious amounts of gratuitous sex, violence and gutter language are included as a crutch.these faults are not the exclusive property of modern comedies.
However, these faults are not the exclusive property of modern comedies.Mr. Knight errs when he attempts to link this modern phenomenon too closely to a single category of movie making.
However, these faults are not the exclusive property of modern comedies.Mr. Knight errs when he attempts to link this modern phenomenon too closely to a single category of movie making.
Mr. Knight errs.he attempts to link this modern phenomenon too closely to a single category of movie making.
it wants shareholders to approve the split.it would "enhance the marketability" and trading of the stock.
the number of shares outstanding would decrease to five million from 50 million, and par value would rise to 10 cents from a penny.approved at a shareholder meeting in December.
the number of shares outstanding would decrease to five million from 50 million.par value would rise to 10 cents from a penny.
the number of shares outstanding would decrease to five million from 50 million.par value would rise to 10 cents from a penny.
Terms weren't disclosed.Duriron said the deal will be completed through an exchange of stock.
Du Pont Co. reported that third-quarter profit grew a robust 19% from a year ago on the strength of the company's operations in various chemicals and fibers, and in petroleum.Du Pont raised its quarterly dividend to $1.20 a share from $1.05, a change that will increase the annualized payout to shareholders by some $140 million.
which lowers the value of overseas earnings.they are translated into dollars.
which lowers the value of overseas earnings.they are translated into dollars.
We haven't benefited the shareholder as much as we need to," said Edgar Woolard Jr., Du Pont's chairman and chief executive officer, in an interview.he entered his current position in April.
The Wilmington, Del., company reported net of $547 million, or $2.36 a share.Du Pont announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split.
Du Pont also announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split.the initial higher dividend will be paid on pre-split shares.
Du Pont still holds an edge in making the pigment.the company was "first in with the technology" to lower costs.
Du Pont holds about 23% of the world-wide market, the largest single share, at a time when growing uses for the pigment have kept it in tight supply.others are now adding low-cost production capacity.
Profit climbed to $98 million from $71 million in the petroleum segment.Du Pont's Conoco Inc. oil company was helped by crude oil prices higher than a year ago and by higher natural gas prices and volume.
Profit climbed to $98 million from $71 million in the petroleum segment.Du Pont's Conoco Inc. oil company was helped by crude oil prices higher than a year ago and by higher natural gas prices and volume.
herbicide use in some areas of the U.S. was delayed earlier in the year by heavy rains.increasing sales in the third quarter.
Profit from coal fell to $41 million from $58 million, partly because of a miners' strike.profit from polymers dropped to $107 million from $122 million amid what Du Pont called lower demand and selling prices in certain packaging and industrial markets.
that a conference be convened next fall to write a new treaty for the EC allowing a European central bank.that the treaty be ratified by 1992.
Mr. Mitterrand proposed that a conference be convened next fall to write a new treaty for the EC allowing a European central bank, and that the treaty be ratified by 1992.Mr. Mitterrand proposed a separate "Bank for Europe" that would channel development money to the East.
The U.S. tends to look at Eastern Europe {not including the Soviet Union} as Europe looks at Latin America: important but far away.for us in Western Europe, these are Europeans next door.
West Germany is a net exporter of capital.the U.S. isn't.
yesterday France announced a three-year, four billion French franc ($650 million) aid plan for Poland.American aid efforts have been limited by budget problems.
Despite sudden changes in the strategic equation, some Western European leaders, especially British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, remain skeptical about European political and economic unity, and are unlikely to let East-West concerns change their minds.British analysts are beginning to link the issues.
that the Marshall Plan of U.S. aid to Europe "didn't just throw money at post-war Europe.it liberalized and opened up those markets.
Most of the West's leaders have finally concluded that we all want perestroika {Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev's policy of economic restructuring} to succeed.they haven't yet drawn the operational policy conclusions.
that with communism collapsing.Mr. Gorbachev scrambling to rejuvenate the Soviet economy.
that with communism collapsing.Mr. Gorbachev scrambling to rejuvenate the Soviet economy.
Our interest lies in a controlled transformation, a contained nuclear reaction.we need to help him, and not just with words.
that is too strong.democratic.
Mr. Roper in London sees a more positive scenario.many commentators, particularly French ones, worry that hasty and emotional reaction to the changes in the East might lead to dangerous pressures for a denuclearized Europe or the speeded-up withdrawal of American troops.
Mr. Roper in London sees a more positive scenario.many commentators, particularly French ones, worry that hasty and emotional reaction to the changes in the East might lead to dangerous pressures for a denuclearized Europe or the speeded-up withdrawal of American troops.
it should be that much easier to make more progress toward the economic and social reforms that are now starting in the East.both sides feel comfortable.
that are triggered.a hostile bidder acquires more than 20% of the shares outstanding.
the rights allow holders to buy additional shares at 50% of the then current market price or, at the board's discretion, to receive securities or assets.triggered.
Dominion Textile Inc. holders adopted a shareholder-rights plan at the annual meeting.Dominion Textile posted net income of 4.7 million Canadian dollars ($4 million), or 12 Canadian cents a share, for the fiscal-first quarter ended Sept. 30.
Dominion Textile Inc. holders adopted a shareholder-rights plan at the annual meeting.Dominion Textile posted net income of 4.7 million Canadian dollars ($4 million), or 12 Canadian cents a share, for the fiscal-first quarter ended Sept. 30.
Computer Sciences will perform data processing work for the Postal Service under the three-year contract.which includes two additional option years for which compensation hasn't yet been fixed.
the purchase was undertaken to participate in ventures in and around New York City.The company hopes the latest acquisition will help secure large construction orders from Japanese concerns with U.S. operations.
Mr. Schwarz, 52 years old, will succeed Daniel P. Davison Feb. 1.Mr. Davison reaches the company's mandatory retirement age of 65.
U.S. Trust, a 136-year-old institution that is one of the earliest high-net worth banks in the U.S., has faced intensifying competition from other firms that have established, and heavily promoted, private-banking businesses of their own.U.S. Trust's earnings have been hurt.
As a result, U.S. Trust's earnings have been hurt.Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust's flagship businesses, calling it "flattery.
U.S. Trust recently introduced certain mutual-fund products, which allow it to serve customers with minimum deposits of $250,000.the company advertised at the $2 million level.
U.S. Trust recently introduced certain mutual-fund products, which allow it to serve customers with minimum deposits of $250,000.the company advertised at the $2 million level.
We have always taken smaller accounts.now we are looking for smaller accounts that will grow.
Quarterly net income this year has risen just over comparable periods in 1988, when year-end net was below the 1987 level.In this year's third quarter net was $10.5 million, or $1.05 a share, compared with $10.3 million, or $1.02 a share, a year earlier.
We will have a reasonably flat year this year," Mr. Schwarz says.Mr. Schwarz said costs associated with U.S. Trust's planned move to midtown Manhattan from Wall Street will continue to be a drag on earnings through 1990.
Mr. Schwarz's great-grandfather founded the New York toy store F.A.O. Schwarz.his family no longer has ties to the company.
H. Marshall Schwarz was named chairman and chief executive officer of U.S. Trust Corp., a private-banking firm with assets under management of about $17 billion Mr. Schwarz, who is president of U.S. Trust, will be succeeded in that post by Jeffrey S. Maurer, 42, who is executive vice president in charge of the company's asset-management group.U.S. Trust created a four-member office of the chairman, effective Feb. 1.
Mr. Roberts continues as treasurer.Mr. Wonham remains responsible for the offices of comptroller, planning, marketing and general services.
Donald M. Roberts, 54, treasurer, and Frederick S. Wonham, 58 were named vice chairmen.Frederick B. Taylor, 48, was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer, a new post.
Frederick B. Taylor, 48, also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer, a new post.He held similar responsibilities.
Frederick B. Taylor, 48, also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer, a new post.Mr. Taylor was named a director.
Frederick B. Taylor, 48, also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer, a new post.Mr. Taylor was named a director.
One of those new computers, called Sparcstation 1, accounted for nearly half of the 28,000 systems Sun shipped in the quarter.More than two-thirds of the systems shipped were products introduced in April.
More than two-thirds of the systems shipped, meanwhile, were products introduced in April.problems in manufacturing, forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system made it extremely difficult for Sun to meet demand for its newest computers well into the summer.
But problems in manufacturing, forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system made it extremely difficult for Sun to meet demand for its newest computers well into the summer.These problems resulted in Sun reporting a $20.3 million loss for its fourth quarter ended June 30.
the issues that hurt Sun's performance earlier this year are now "largely" behind the firm.that Sun's profitability should increase throughout the fiscal year.
Sun Microsystems Inc., snapping back to profitability after its first quarterly loss as a public firm, said it earned $5.2 million, or seven cents a share, in the fiscal first quarter.Sun reported a record backlog of orders.
Sun faces increasing competition from Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.this indicates continued strong demand for the company's desk-top computers.
Sun faces increasing competition from Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.Sun is vulnerable to competition from International Business Machines Corp and Next Inc.
to bring Sharon Steel Corp. out of Chapter 11 proceedings.to acquire the company's steel-related assets in a transaction valued at more than $300 million.
to purchase as much as $50 million in equity in the new company for the confirmation of the plan.necessary.
that such financing is already being sought.that a formal proposal would be made to Sharon's Chapter 11 trustee and other Sharon creditors over the next few days.
Two old friends, George Bush and Deng Xiaoping, are trying to limit further damage to U.S.-China ties.as Congress prepares a fresh package of sanctions against Beijing, the already-tense relationship could get worse.
But the already-tense relationship could get worse.Congress prepares a fresh package of sanctions against Beijing.
he told the president that the Chinese "made statements to me that I regard as a first step toward reconciliation.he met with Mr. Bush on his return.
We must not shirk our responsibility.we cannot just blame the demonstrators.
The Chinese leader, Mr. Lee informed Mr. Bush, expressed some regret for what had happened in Beijing and conceded that China's officials bore some responsibility.Mr. Lee reported to the president that, in a separate meeting, Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin said the Chinese leadership "looked kindly on the students who took part in the demonstrations.
that, in a separate meeting, Communist Party chief Jiang Zemin said the Chinese leadership "looked kindly on the students who took part in the demonstrations.Mr. Jiang pledged that the Chinese Red Cross would publish "very soon" a list of those killed.
Mr. Jiang also pledged that the Chinese Red Cross would publish "very soon" a list of those killed.he told the physicist that China's leaders were "very much concerned" about the deaths and had arranged aid for the victims' families.
I transmitted my conversations to the White House.I was not acting as a messenger.
that the Chinese never asked him to convey their statements to President Bush.that the White House spontaneously invited him to do so.
The president doesn't want to have legislative sanctions.he may not have a choice.
A university student got eight years for participating in the rallies.an 18-year-old worker got 10 years.
they will step up the campaign of arrests and intimidation against those who participated in the demonstrations.has Beijing hinted to its citizens that it will publish the identities of those killed.
So far, the victims are officially considered evil-doers.their families receive no compensation.
gunned down by a stray bullet.cycling to work.
In the U.S., there are still people who want to crush China and interfere in our internal affairs," Zhu Qizhen, China's new ambassador to the U.S., said.he left for Washington last week.
they are likely to mirror those Mr. Bush enacted shortly after the massacre.as legislative action, they would carry greater weight and would be more difficult to rescind.
U.S.-China ties could spin downward, out of control.the two sides aren't careful.
The patients began receiving EPO injections about a month before their scheduled surgery.They began donating blood twice a week, receiving an EPO injection each time.
blood wasn't taken.tests indicated a low number of red cells.
This team initially called its new model Personal Retirement Account, or "PRA.it didn't sing.
But it didn't sing.they opted for IRA.
This caused an explosion of IRA promotions by brokers, banks, mutual funds and others.in 1986 Congress sharply reduced the number of people who could qualify for its benefits and IRA tax-deductions slowed their roaring growth.
This caused an explosion of IRA promotions by brokers, banks, mutual funds and others.in 1986 Congress sharply reduced the number of people who could qualify for its benefits and IRA tax-deductions slowed their roaring growth.
But in 1986 Congress sharply reduced the number of people who could qualify for its benefits.IRA tax-deductions slowed their roaring growth.
Commercial transactions will continue to be based on the official rate of about 0.63 rubles to the dollar.for Soviet citizens who travel abroad for business or tourism, the rate will jump to 6.26 rubles to the dollar.
But for Soviet citizens who travel abroad for business or tourism, the rate will jump to 6.26 rubles to the dollar.the devaluation will apply to foreigners' transactions.
Tass news agency said the devaluation also will apply to foreigners' transactions.it didn't elaborate, and it remains unclear how far Western tourists and foreigners living in Moscow will be allowed to benefit from the sweeping rate cut.
But it didn't elaborate.it remains unclear how far Western tourists and foreigners living in Moscow will be allowed to benefit from the sweeping rate cut.
the discrepancy has become ever greater.Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has opened up the country to foreign trade.
the discrepancy has become ever greater.Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev has opened up the country to foreign trade.
They use dollars to buy Western items such as video recorders and personal computers.and sell them at a huge mark-up.
With more than 300 billion rubles in savings accounts and little to spend them on, Soviet consumers grumble at the exorbitant black-market prices for such goods.they buy them anyway.
to iron out exchange-rate discrepancies.Moscow moves toward making the ruble convertible -- a goal that Soviet bankers and economists say is still far away.
Rumors of an impending devaluation have been circulating in Moscow for weeks.the size of the cut took many Western bankers by surprise.
Soviet firms that hold some are unwilling to part with it.joint ventures aren't yet allowed to participate.
Soviet firms that hold some are unwilling to part with it, and joint ventures aren't yet allowed to participate.The Kremlin has been unwilling to provide hard currency for the auction.
to provide hard currency for the auction.using a lot of it to finance emergency imports of consumer goods.
that would enable the State Bank to increase its dollar reserves and would mop up some of the excess rubles in the economy at the same time.foreign tourists and businesses could sell their currencies freely at the new, better exchange rate.
If foreign tourists and businesses could sell their currencies freely at the new, better exchange rate, that would enable the State Bank to increase its dollar reserves and would mop up some of the excess rubles in the economy at the same time.the amounts they exchange may be limited.
But the amounts they exchange may be limited.most Soviet hotels demand payment in hard currency from Western visitors.
the devaluation could cause difficulties for the people it is primarily meant to help: Soviets who travel abroad.other rules are changed.
Over the past three years, thousands of people here have made use of looser travel restrictions to get their first taste of life abroad.under current rules, they are allowed to change just 200 rubles into dollars and other currencies for each trip.
the black market for dollars probably will continue to thrive.it isn't.
International Business Machines Corp. made news this summer when it landed an unusual contract to manage all of Eastman Kodak Co. 's data-processing needs.the computer giant appears to have lost a second key contract with Kodak to archrival Digital Equipment Corp.
that it has entered negotiations with Maynard, Mass.-based Digital to manage all of its voice and data communications needs.IBM had bid for the business.
we wanted to get the best vendor for that service.we decided to look outside the company for critical data-processing and communications services.
This year is the 75th anniversary of the Federal Reserve System.it's time to take a fresh look at the nation's central bank.
After 75 years there may be a few things that are worth reexamining.The regional Federal Reserve Bank setup may be out of date.
In earlier years it may have seemed reasonable to give Richmond, Va., a bank and allow Los Angeles only a branch of the San Francisco bank.times have changed.
and some members of Congress think it's time to take a fresh look at the nation's central bank.Some of the would-be reformers want to restore an arrangement we once had -- or, at least, part of it.
In the beginning, the treasury secretary and the comptroller of the currency were both ex officio members of the Federal Reserve Board.in 1935, when Congress was trying to find someone or something to blame for the Great Depression, it decided to drop both the secretary and the comptroller from the board.
In the beginning, the treasury secretary and the comptroller of the currency were both ex officio members of the Federal Reserve Board.in 1935, when Congress was trying to find someone or something to blame for the Great Depression, it decided to drop both the secretary and the comptroller from the board.
that he felt that he had a great deal of power.he was on the board.
that he had a great deal of power.somehow that was a good thing.
that the change would accomplish much.at least Congress, as in 1935, would be doing something.
Nicholas Brady, the incumbent treasury secretary, is of course aware of the proposal.he doesn't like it much.
That may have pleased the secretary.H. Erich Heinemann, chief economist of the investment firm of Ladenburg, Thalmann & Co., suggests that Mr. Brady may figure he already has all the power he needs.
Like most treasury secretaries, Mr. Brady takes a keen interest in monetary matters, of course.He was taking an especially keen interest in board matters even before he went to the treasury.
He was, in fact, taking an especially keen interest in board matters.he went to the treasury.
what went wrong.what should be done about it.
This recommendation might have encouraged a turf-hungry bureaucrat to try to expand his power.so far Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan hasn't made a pitch for the job.
The Fed has plenty of responsibilities in times of market turmoil.in 1987 and again in 1989 it appears to have handled them well.
he thought government agencies in the latest market drop were better prepared to coordinate their actions.he has left no doubt that he still likes the ideas the commission advanced nearly two years ago.
that he still likes the ideas the commission advanced nearly two years ago.In recent weeks Mr. Brady has joined other administration officials in trying to urge the Fed toward lower interest rates.
the Fed may be slightly more interested in curbing inflation than the administration is.the administration may put slightly more emphasis on spurring economic growth.
The inflation-growth argument is an old one.Mr. Brady, on the board or off, is surely trying to influence Fed policy.
The treasury can do something on its own.to have any hope of success it needs help from the Fed.
The Fed has been intervening in foreign currency markets, all right.through August, at least, it appeared to be "sterilizing" the intervention.
but through August, at least, it appeared to be "sterilizing" the intervention.it was offsetting purchases of marks and yen by buying dollars in the domestic money market.
it may make them tread a little carefully, for fear of what the central bank may do.traders see the Fed is in the exchange market.
Now, sterilized intervention may have some effect.that sterilized intervention has little or no lasting impact on currency values.
After August the Fed may have stopped sterilizing.it's hard to see much impact on the dollar.
The Fed has let interest rates slip slightly.whether the main reason was dollar intervention, the gloomy reports on manufacturing employment, or the Friday 13 market drop, only Mr. Greenspan and his associates know.
Trying to manage exchange rates to some desired level would mean diverting monetary and fiscal policies from their customary roles.and risking excessive inflation and unemployment and inadequate capital formation.
This has been a week of stunning events behind what was once called the Iron Curtain and interesting shifts in official American policy toward Moscow.It has been a week when inside-the-beltway Washington has had a high old time gnawing over ex-President Reagan's multimillion-dollar junket in Japan.
The latter may seem oddly irrelevant given the big picture.not downright trivial.
The latter may seem oddly irrelevant, if not downright trivial, given the big picture.the way we have handled it in the nation's capital has done nothing to dispel that impression.
and the way we have handled it in the nation's capital has done nothing to dispel that impression.however, Mr. Reagan's casual debasement of the office he so recently held raises issues about which Americans can actually do something.
The latter may seem oddly irrelevant, if not downright trivial, given the big picture.In fact Mr. Reagan's casual debasement of the office he so recently held raises issues about which Americans can actually do something.
Hungary is no longer a "Socialist Peoples" republic, the Communist Party no longer has automatic delegates in the U.S.S.R.'s Congress of Peoples Deputies.Egon Krenz was not backed unanimously by his fellow party functionaries when he took over as East Germany's new maximum leader.
and Egon Krenz was not backed unanimously by his fellow party functionaries.he took over as East Germany's new maximum leader.
All of that is just for starters.so the hundreds of thousands of Eastern Europeans in the streets seem to hope and are certainly demanding.
Of like, though lesser, note, Secretary of State James Baker put the administration four-square behind perestroika and glasnost, and therefore behind Mikhail Gorbachev, in a pair of carefully reasoned speeches over the past week or so.last but not least, President George Bush now views the changes in Eastern Europe as "absolutely extraordinary" and believes that Mr. Krenz "can't turn the clock back" in East Germany because the change is too inexorable," as he told the New York Times's R.W. Apple Jr.
that Mr. Krenz "can't turn the clock back" in East Germany.the change is too inexorable.
Of like, though lesser, note, Secretary of State James Baker put the administration four-square behind perestroika and glasnost, and therefore behind Mikhail Gorbachev, in a pair of carefully reasoned speeches over the past week or so..And, last but not least, President George Bush now views the changes in Eastern Europe as "absolutely extraordinary" and believes that Mr. Krenz "can't turn the clock back" in East Germany because the change is too inexorable.after some highly visible dithering and public airing of differences, the administration has come down on the side of those who believe that what we are witnessing from Berlin to Siberia is a good thing to be welcomed, rather than a new thing to be feared or viewed with suspicion.
All of this is what history will note.the record of this time is put down.
All of this is what history will note when the record of this time is put down.For journalists this has also been a week to give a lot of space and time to Ron and Nancy's sales appearance in Japan on behalf of a communications giant and its controversial founder.
All of this is what history will note when the record of this time is put down.For journalists, however this has been a week to give a lot of space and time to Ron and Nancy's sales appearance in Japan on behalf of a communications giant and its controversial founder.
the Japanese government has put up just about as much.so it is reported.
The Japanese industrialist has coughed up at least $2 million, the Japanese government has put up just about as much, or so it is reported.at least one estimate puts the total tab at $7 million.
Punching away, we raised what I still think were all the right issues and landed more than one hard blow.at the end of the affair, there was just the tiniest nagging worry that we had been aiming at the wrong target.
what he had always done before his election.and thereafter.
He was performing for pay.why should anyone expect anything more.
and why should anyone expect anything more.there's more to the matter than Ronald Reagan's personal values, or lack of them.
The theme song for the 1980s has been, "Anything Goes.it has been whistled with gusto from Wall Street to some of the highest peaks of televangelism.
that America has always suffered from a bad case of schizophrenia.it comes to the dichotomy between what is professed and what is practiced.
between what is professed.what is practiced.
The moral flabbiness born of the exclusive worship of the bitch goddess success . . . that, with the squalid cash interpretation put on the word success, is our national disease.if it was the national disease in 1906, it is today the national commonplace.
But it is today the national commonplace.it was the national disease in 1906.
do it.there is no law against it.
use them.the law leaves loopholes.
full speed ahead.there is no moral prohibition that expressly forbids it.
If there is no moral prohibition that expressly forbids it, full speed ahead.if you are caught or if people complain, simply argue that "everyone does it" or "no one said I shouldn't " and brazen it out.
And simply argue that "everyone does it" or "no one said I shouldn't " and brazen it out.you are caught.
if you are caught.if people complain.
And simply argue that "everyone does it" or "no one said I shouldn't " and brazen it out.or people complain.
that "everyone does it.no one said I shouldn't.
As a last recourse apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong.all else has failed and you are pinned.
As a last recourse apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong.all else has failed and you are pinned.
when all else has failed.you are pinned.
As a last recourse apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you.deny having actually done anything wrong.
As a last recourse, when all else has failed and you are pinned, apologize for having disappointed those who trusted you but deny having actually done anything wrong.See Jim Bakker's remarks upon being sentenced to prison this Tuesday for defrauding the faithful.
We have people in high place still lying through their teeth about Iran-Contra.that apparently isn't going to change.
The occasional media witch hunt about some politician's private peccadilloes notwithstanding, the general inclination is to offer a version of the old refrain, "Who am I to judge.no standards, no judgment and no values.
You are mad.he's making so much money.
No, we ought to be mad.he has demeaned the office we gave him.
He was referring to the "absolutely extraordinary" events in Eastern Europe.it is a defensible position.
and it is a defensible position.there is no defense at all for the ethos of the 1980s.
we slithered and slipped down the long slope.now we have as its quintessential symbol a former president huckstering for a foreign poohbah.
and now we have as its quintessential symbol a former president huckstering for a foreign poohbah.perhaps that is a fitting symbol for the United States of 1989: Everything for sale; nothing of real value.
Mr. Drabinsky and Vice Chairman Myron Gottlieb are negotiating financing.offering C$16.40 a share to acquire all of Cineplex's shares outstanding.
that the two executives haven't reached a final decision to proceed with a bid.that until an offer is made the board will continue seeking higher offers from other bidders.
and that the board will continue seeking higher offers from other bidders.an offer is made.
it will reimburse them a maximum of C$8.5 million for expenses related to a bid.Messrs..Drabinsky and Gottlieb mail an offer to shareholders by Nov. 22.
to tender their holdings to an offer by Mr. Drabinsky.a higher offer is made by another bidder.
MCA holds half of Cineplex's equity and 33% of its voting rights through restricted voting shares.Bronfman interests hold about 24% of the company's equity.
MCA holds half of Cineplex's equity and 33% of its voting rights through restricted voting shares.Bronfman interests hold about 24% of the company's equity.
Mr. Drabinsky's offer "is all cash.it's for all of the company.
shareholders will have every reason to be glad.a bid materializes at that price.
If a bid materializes at that price, shareholders will have every reason to be glad.the question of financing still remains.
to buy for $57 million.and lease back to Cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in Universal City, Calif.
to buy for $57 million and then lease back to Cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in Universal City, Calif.Mr. Drabinsky succeeds in an offer.
MCA and the Bronfman associates agreed in principle to buy for $57 million and then lease back to Cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in Universal City, Calif., if Mr. Drabinsky succeeds in an offer.if a bid by Mr. Drabinsky is successful, Cineplex expects Rank Organisation PLC to acquire the 51% of Cineplex's Film House unit it doesn't own, and provide Mr. Drabinsky with additional loan financing.
Rank Organisation PLC to acquire the 51% of Cineplex's Film House unit it doesn't own, and provide Mr. Drabinsky with additional loan financing.a bid by Mr. Drabinsky is successful.
Messrs..Drabinsky and Gottlieb are "anywhere close" to arranging financing.that investors will need a solid offer before the stock begins to rise again.
and that investors will need a solid offer.the stock begins to rise again.
Hoechst AG's Chairman Wolfgang Hilger said the company wants to have a substitute product to completely replace ozone-damaging chlorofluorocarbons by 1995.BASF AG, another large chemicals company, said it formed a separate division that will study the environmental impact of plastics and will investigate all possibilities of recycling plastics.
The test markets will be in northern California, Arizona and Colorado, some of the hottest bottled-water markets.not specified.
In Geneva, where world trade talks are being held under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, the European Community called the U.S. proposal "a step backward.Japan's minister of agriculture, forestry and fisheries told a committee of Japan's parliament that Washington's proposal was impractical and that Tokyo would continue to heavily subsidize its rice farmers.
that Washington's proposal was impractical.that Tokyo would continue to heavily subsidize its rice farmers.
U.S. officials said the plan was flexible, and was intended as a pragmatic approach for gradually removing trade-distorting subsidies.the EC reacted defiantly, arguing that the proposal's main aim is to destroy the Common Agricultural Policy, the EC's $28 billion-a-year price support program.
Some of America's biggest trading partners gave a quick thumbs-down to a U.S. proposal to liberalize world trade and reduce farm-product subsidies.The U.S. proposal was criticized by food-importing developing countries.
the poorest nations are likely to need help in the meantime.that food-importing nations would eventually become self-sufficient in a free-market system.
that food-importing nations would eventually become self-sufficient in a free-market system.the poorest nations are likely to need help.
by converting certain non-tariff barriers into tariffs.that, together with existing tariffs would be phased out over 10 years.
The U.S. argues that its plan would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by converting certain non-tariff barriers into tariffs that, together with existing tariffs, then would be phased out over 10 years.the EC is strongly opposed to converting agricultural supports into tariffs.
that its plan would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by converting certain non-tariff barriers into tariffs that, together with existing tariffs, then would be phased out over 10 years.countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports.
countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products.they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports.
The EC, with a population of 320 million, has 8.5 million farmers.the U.S., with a population of about 245 million, has only two million farmers.
The EC, with a population of 320 million, has 8.5 million farmers.the U.S., with a population of about 245 million, has only two million farmers.
Japan's objections to the U.S. plan center around its desire to stay self-sufficient in rice, a staple food.foreign producers are far more efficient.
Under the agreement Bell Atlantic would be buying Control Data's customer base and its approximately 100 U.S. maintenance facilities in about 33 cities.Control Data would continue to provide maintenance services for customers of its Cyber product line.
The biographer/critic," Judge Leval wrote, "should not be required simply to express . . . conclusions without defending them by example.Judge Leval felt constrained by an earlier decision of the Second Circuit Court forbidding a biographer of J.D. Salinger to quote from Mr. Salinger's personal letters.
He distinguished the two cases: In Salinger the quotations were for the purpose of enlivening the biography rather than of proving points about the subject.the Salinger decision created a strong presumption against fair use of unpublished materials.
that a few of Mr. Miller's quotations from Mr. Hubbard's unpublished writings failed the fair-use test.they were not necessary to prove historical points.
that a few of Mr. Miller's quotations from Mr. Hubbard's unpublished writings failed the fair-use test.and infringed copyright.
that a few of Mr. Miller's quotations from Mr. Hubbard's unpublished writings, because they were not necessary to prove historical points, failed the fair-use test and therefore infringed copyright.the proper remedy lay in a suit for damages, not in an injunction.
Decisions by the Second Circuit itself had recognized that public interest in the subject matter and the indispensability in particular cases of verbatim quotations are vital components of fair use.the injunction Judges Miner and Altimari would so readily have granted had New Era sued in time.
Suppression of the book would operate as a prior restraint.and involve the First Amendment.
Suppression of the book would operate as a prior restraint and thus involve the First Amendment.Responsible biographers and historians constantly use primary sources, letters, diaries, and memoranda.
Moreover Responsible biographers and historians constantly use primary sources, letters, diaries, and memoranda.it would be irresponsible to ignore such sources of information.
Now, scholars in fulfilling their responsibility do not claim the right to invade every collection of papers that bears upon their topics of investigation.of course they agree that people can impose restrictions on the use of their papers, whether in their own possession or as donated or sold to libraries.
And of course they agree that people can impose restrictions on the use of their papers, whether in their own possession or as donated or sold to libraries.in the "Bare-Faced Messiah" case the author found most of his material in court records or via the Freedom of Information Act.
But in the "Bare-Faced Messiah" case the author found most of his material in court records or via the Freedom of Information Act.when responsible scholars gain legitimate access to unpublished materials, copyright should not be permitted to deny them use of quotations that help to establish historical points.
And copyright should not be permitted to deny them use of quotations that help to establish historical points.responsible scholars gain legitimate access to unpublished materials.
And copyright should not be permitted to deny them use of quotations that help to establish historical points.responsible scholars gain legitimate access to unpublished materials.
Judges Miner and Altimari do not appear to have a clue.at the moment they are the judges who are making the law.
he deserves to be enjoined.an author quotes "more than minimal amounts" of unpublished copyrighted materials.
The courts have not defined "minimal amounts.publishers take it to mean about 50 words.
Janet Malcolm, a professional writer on psychiatric matters, wrote a series of articles for the New Yorker.published in book form by Knopf under the title "In the Freud Archives.
Janet Malcolm, a professional writer on psychiatric matters, wrote a series of articles for the New Yorker, later published in book form by Knopf under the title "In the Freud Archives.Mr. Masson brought a libel suit against Ms. Malcolm, the New Yorker and Knopf.
As a public figure, Mr. Masson had to prove malice.as proof of malice, Mr. Masson contended that defamatory quotations ascribed to him by Ms. Malcolm were in fact fabricated.
As a public figure, Mr. Masson had to prove malice.as proof of malice, Mr. Masson contended that defamatory quotations ascribed to him by Ms. Malcolm were in fact fabricated.
The quotes could not be found on the tapes.the two judges who decided the case for Ms. Malcolm and her publishers conceded that, for the purpose of their decision, "we assume the quotations were deliberately altered.
For all historians and most journalists, this admission would have been sufficient to condemn the Malcolm articles.Judge Arthur Alarcon, joined by Judge Cynthia Holcomb Hall, took the astonishing position that it is perfectly OK to fabricate quotations so long as a judge finds that the fabrications do not alter substantive content or are rational interpretations of ambiguous remarks.
that the reader assumes that these are the speaker's precise words or at least his words purged of "uh" and "you know" and grammatical error.a writer uses quotation marks in reporting what someone has said.
the right to deliberately alter quotations is not, in my view, a concomitant of a free press.judges have an obligation under the First Amendment to safeguard freedom of the press.
to deliberately alter quotations.Ms. Malcolm wrote that Mr. Masson described himself as "the greatest analyst who ever lived." No such statement appears on the tapes.
The majority cited Mr. Masson's remark "It's me alone . . . against the rest of the analytic world" as warrant for the Malcolm fabrication.as Judge Kozinski noted, the context shows that Mr. Masson's "me alone" remark referred not to his alleged pre-eminence in his profession but to the fact that his position on a particular issue was not shared by anyone else.
that the phrase was a rational interpretation of Mr. Masson's description of himself as a "private asset but a public liability" to Anna Freud.that in any case it was not defamatory.
Mr. Masson emerges "as a grandiose egotist . . . and, in the end, a self-destructive fool.it is not Janet Malcolm who calls him such.
Masson has lost his case.the defendants, and the profession to which they belong, have lost far more.
Perhaps in time the Supreme Court will correct them.writing history is tough enough without judges gratuitously throwing obstacles in the scholar's path.
Scopes was convicted and fined $100.his conviction was reversed on appeal because the fine was excessive under Tennessee law.
and his conviction was reversed on appeal.the fine was excessive under Tennessee law.
It has always been so.so it seems to be with the case of Elizabeth Morgan, the Washington, D.C., plastic surgeon jailed in a child custody case for refusing to reveal the whereabouts of her daughter.
It presents no great issue of legal principle, no overriding question of family law or the law of contempt.it turns on the disputed and elusive facts of "who did what to whom.
It is difficult, if not impossible, for anyone who has not pored over the thousands of pages of court pleadings and transcripts to have a worthwhile opinion on the underlying merits of the controversy.we must look elsewhere for an explanation of the unusual power this case has exerted over the minds of many, not just in Washington but elsewhere in the country and even the world.
The first is that it represents an intense battle in what James Thurber used to caricature as "the war between the sexes.although Thurber did so gently and lightheartedly, many of Dr. Morgan's supporters have taken Thurber's memorable title "The Male Animal" quite literally.
But many of Dr. Morgan's supporters have taken Thurber's memorable title "The Male Animal" quite literally.Thurber did so gently and lightheartedly.
that Congress would have rushed to pass a private relief bill freeing her.she were an uneducated, black, working-class woman.
that if she were an uneducated, black, working-class woman, Congress would have rushed to pass a private relief bill freeing her.that the president would have hurried to sign the bill "out of compassion for her plight.
The first is that it represents an intense battle in what James Thurber used to caricature as "the war between the sexes A second theme is the undercurrent of social class and race in the public reaction to the Morgan case.the case of Dr. Morgan gave Congress an opportunity to act with unaccustomed decisiveness and to engage in one of its favorite pastimes -- bashing the District of Columbia government.
The local government is discredited in the eyes of many residents for a variety of reasons.congressmen read the same newspapers and watch the same TV newscasts as other people in the area do.
Congress is paralyzed from acting on such great issues of the day as the federal budget deficit.a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed, before the judicial process had run its course, and, indeed, while the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court.
Yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed.the judicial process had run its course.
before the judicial process had run its course.indeed, while the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court.
Yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed.and, indeed the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court.
Congress is paralyzed from acting on such great issues of the day as the federal budget deficit..Yet a bill tailored to the interests of a single individual passed Congress with almost unimaginable speed, before the judicial process had run its course, and, indeed, while the Morgan case was awaiting a ruling by the appellate court.The Morgan case tells us much more about the current state of sex, class, race and politics in our society than it does about the facts of Dr. Morgan's particular situation.
it offered to acquire Arby's Inc., the fast-food operator, for $205 million.The proposal was immediately rebuffed by Arby's parent, DWG Corp.
net income fell 22% in the third quarter, reflecting declining military spending and slumping GM vehicle production.net at GM's finance arm, General Motors Acceptance Corp., fell 3.1%.
net income fell 22% in the third quarter, reflecting declining military spending and slumping GM vehicle production.net at GM's finance arm, General Motors Acceptance Corp., fell 3.1%.
Meanwhile, net at GM's finance arm, General Motors Acceptance Corp., fell 3.1%.Electronic Data Systems Corp., GM's data processing subsidiary, boosted net 16%.
Profit at the unit fell to $110.6 million, or 37 cents a share, from $142.4 million, or 45 cents a share, largely because of a $24 million one-time charge associated with Hughes's previously announced plan to reduce employment by at least 6,000 people by year end.Even excluding the charge net fell 5%.
The earnings drop at GM Hughes Electronics is a sign of tough times at both the defense operations of Hughes Aircraft Co. and GM's North American automotive operations, which are a primary customer for the Delco Electronics Corp. side of the GM Hughes unit.GM's North American vehicle production fell 8.4% from a year ago, which hurt Delco Electronic's earnings.
The bids remain subject to evaluation by the federal bankruptcy court supervising PS of New Hampshire's reorganization.They are indirectly subject to approval by the state of New Hampshire.
Each of the four parties bidding for PS of New Hampshire proposes a complex financial package to satisfy creditors and shareholders.and proposes a formula to limit rate increases to satisfy the state.
The new round of bidding would seem to complicate the decision making for Judge James Yacos, the bankruptcy judge overseeing the case.the company's stockholders, unsecured creditors and regulators each are currently backing different plans.
The new round of bidding would seem to complicate the decision making for Judge James Yacos, the bankruptcy judge overseeing the case, because the company's stockholders, unsecured creditors and regulators each are currently backing different plans.some of the proposals are so close, that non-financial issues such as timing may play a more important role.
The unsecured creditors agreed in principle to support New Haven, Conn.-based United Illuminating's new bid.They had backed an internal reorganization plan proposed by PS of New Hampshire.
The unsecured creditors agreed in principle to support New Haven, Conn.-based United Illuminating's new bid.They had backed an internal reorganization plan proposed by PS of New Hampshire.
All of the bidders contemplate full payment including interest to secured creditors.United Illuminating's plan offers more for unsecured creditors.
that under the United Illuminating plan, unsecured creditors would be paid in full credits and interest of about $855 million, accrued before PS of New Hampshire's Jan. 1988 filing for bankruptcy court protection.they would receive some $200 million in payments for interest since then.
It would be 72%-owned by United Illuminating holders and 28%-owned by current holders of PS of New Hampshire preferred and common stock.PS of New Hampshire preferred holders would get certain debentures and preferred stock.
The other bidders, New England Electric System, Westboro, Mass., and PS of New Hampshire, didn't change the value of their bids.PS of New Hampshire changed its rate proposal.
New England Electric values its offer at $2 billion.PS of New Hampshire values its reorganization plan at $2.2 billion.
The bankruptcy judge has ruled that federal bankruptcy laws could be used to circumvent state regulation.that the state plays a major role because it could significantly delay final settlement of a plan it didn't like.
that the state plays a major role.it could significantly delay final settlement of a plan it didn't like.
PS of New Hampshire amended its plan to call for two years of 5.5% rate increases followed by five years of 4.5% increases.Fuel cost adjustments could change the effective rate increases.
PS of New Hampshire amended its plan to call for two years of 5.5% rate increases followed by five years of 4.5% increases.it had proposed seven years of 5.5% increases.
PS of New Hampshire amended its plan to call for two years of 5.5% rate increases followed by five years of 4.5% increases.it had proposed seven years of 5.5% increases.
PS of New Hampshire amended its plan to call for two years of 5.5% rate increases followed by five years of 4.5% increases.United Illuminating amended its rate plan.
The new offer assumes just five years of 5.5% rate increases, to be followed by state-approved increases under the usual hearing procedure.Previously United Illuminating had called for seven years of 5.5% increases.
that would pay one to three years' salary.their jobs were changed or they were dismissed in the wake of a takeover.
if their jobs were changed.they were dismissed in the wake of a takeover.
Richard Breeden hadn't noticed that his new desk had just four telephone lines and one phone.the lack of lines became painfully apparent.
Mr. Breeden found himself scurrying around the sixth floor of the SEC -- from his desk, where the New York Stock Exchange was on an open line, to his assistant's office, where the Commodity Futures Trading Commission was connected, to a third room, where a computer monitored market moves.the stock market lurched into a 190-point free fall on Oct. 13.
Mr. Breeden found himself scurrying around the sixth floor of the SEC -- from his desk, where the New York Stock Exchange was on an open line, to his assistant's office, where the Commodity Futures Trading Commission was connected, to a third room, where a computer monitored market moves.the stock market lurched into a 190-point free fall on Oct. 13.
Now there are more lines connected to the chairman's office.the market-monitoring computer has been moved next to his desk.
Like his predecessor, David Ruder, he was faced with a crisis in the stock markets.coming into office.
Like his predecessor, David Ruder, he was faced with a crisis in the stock markets soon after coming into office.unlike Mr. Ruder, who during the 1987 crash damaged himself by saying rather offhandedly that the markets might be closed, Mr. Breeden is turning the market drop to his own advantage, using it to further his agenda for the SEC.
But unlike Mr. Ruder Mr. Breeden is turning the market drop to his own advantage, using it to further his agenda for the SEC.unlike Mr. Ruder, Mr. Breeden appears to be in a position to get somewhere with his agenda.
More broadly, he wants to "modernize" regulation by eliminating barriers between commercial and investment banking and by helping U.S. financial firms compete in the global market.Mr. Breeden, a 39-year-old securities lawyer, has skirted some of the heftier issues facing the financial markets.
But Mr. Breeden, a 39-year-old securities lawyer, has skirted some of the heftier issues facing the financial markets.he hasn't stated a clear position on high-risk, high-yield junk bonds, an area of growing concern as turmoil in the junk market spills over into stocks.
For instance, he hasn't stated a clear position on high-risk, high-yield junk bonds, an area of growing concern as turmoil in the junk market spills over into stocks.He has kept a close wrap on the names of people under consideration for the crucial post of enforcement director at the commission, a job vacant since the summer.
Members of the Senate Banking Committee know Mr. Breeden from working on the thrift-bailout bill.the relationship generally remains warm.
and the relationship generally remains warm.during Mr. Breeden's confirmation hearing last month, senators asked him to introduce his children three separate times -- more often than they asked about his qualifications for the job.
These days, Mr. Breeden is winning praise in Washington and on Wall Street for his behind-the-scenes role in monitoring the Friday-the-13th market plunge and the following Monday's harrowing morning session.Not everyone has jumped on the Breeden bandwagon.
It was a fairly stressful weekend.my sense is if you hadn't had Richard Breeden there, it wouldn't have made much of a difference.
it wouldn't have made much of a difference.you hadn't had Richard Breeden there.
that Mr. Breeden also will roll over.told to do so by the White House.
that Mr. Breeden also will roll over.told to do so by the White House.
They worry that Mr. Breeden also will roll over when told to do so by the White House.Mr. Breeden already has shown an eagerness to run the SEC his way.
Stunned, Mr. Breeden turned to his market-monitoring computer.which was next to his desk.
Mr. Breeden instructed SEC staffers to inform the network that it was airing the wrong number.Mr. Breeden is trying to use a far more catastrophic event -- the California earthquake -- to move another rule change past Congress.
the question of whether to list options on more than one exchange has aroused much interest in Congress.regional exchanges fear the change could bankrupt them.
The soft, wafting aromas will "improve ride comfort," the display attests.a proud employee says Mazda hopes to move the system out of the lab and into its cars in a year or two.
Welcome to the 28th Tokyo Motor Show..Here you can find Mitsubishi Motors Corp. displaying a "live fish transporter," a truck akin to an aquarium on wheels, and Nissan Motor Co. with its "keyless" Boga, whose doors unlock upon recognizing the owner's fingerprints..Suzuki Motor Co. 's Escudome sport vehicle features a pop-out rear tent and invites drivers to go "back to the nature.this biennial event, the world's largest display of cars and trucks, has its serious side, including the first major exhibitions of future engines and vehicle-suspension systems.
But this biennial event, the world's largest display of cars and trucks, has its serious side, including the first major exhibitions of future engines and vehicle-suspension systems.It's the prime showcase for a country whose world dominance in the industry is increasingly acknowledged.
It's also the prime showcase for a country whose world dominance in the industry is increasingly acknowledged.therein lies the draw.
Even the biggest auto shows in the U.S. are largely regional affairs.the Tokyo show is international.
Detroit-to-Tokyo flights were booked solid this week.Motor City executives, including Ford Motor Co. Chairman Donald E. Petersen and Chrysler Corp. Vice Chairman Gerald Greenwald, flocked to see the future.
Detroit-to-Tokyo flights were booked solid this week.Motor City executives, including Ford Motor Co. Chairman Donald E. Petersen and Chrysler Corp. Vice Chairman Gerald Greenwald, flocked to see the future.
at what the Japanese hosts sported.what the foreign visitors saw.
Existing suspension systems try to absorb bounces.active suspension provides power to counter the jolts.
it will introduce its first system next month on the Infiniti Q45 luxury sedan.Toyota's Celica coupe will go on sale with the suspension device next spring.
it will introduce its first system next month on the Infiniti Q45 luxury sedan, and Toyota's Celica coupe will go on sale with the suspension device next spring.drivers in the U.S. must wait.
The Japanese, for now, are keeping active suspension for domestic use only.Detroit's Big Three auto makers say their systems are still under development.
that within a decade could provide power equal to today's engines.and take up only half the space.
In the so-called two-stroke engines each piston goes up and down only once to provide power.the pistons in conventional four-stroke engines must move up and down twice in each power cycle.
It is rumored to be bound for a new model in the luxury Acura line in the U.S.Honda officials wouldn't comment.
There's plenty of whimsy here.it isn't always clear whether it's intentional.
The show's symbol is a woman riding on a snail, not your usual metaphor for speed and agility.the sponsors have an explanation.
Japanese auto makers are known for coming up with funny names.this year the practice seems to have reached a new high -- or low.
Honda has a tiny motorcycle called the Monkey, and a slightly larger cousin, the Gorilla..Mitsubishi has a futuristic delivery truck called the Guppy..Mazda has the Bongo truck and, under its Autozam nameplate, a "microvan" called the Scrum..Its buglike Carol minicar is "designed with softness, gentleness and warmheartedness.the court jester appears to be Japan's smallest car maker, Daihatsu Motor Co.
One of its futuristic concepts is the bubblelike Sneaker.Daihatsu has the Fellow 90, the Leeza Spider and the Hijet Dumbo.
Japanese auto makers are known for coming up with funny names, but this year the practice seems to have reached a new high -- or low.The jokes aren't just on the Japanese.
The name is supposed to connote feminine grandeur.in Japanese it means "eyeglasses.
General Motors Corp. is sponsoring its first independent display in 10 years.it includes a boxy Buick station wagon with wood-grain side panels.
AB Volvo invites passers-by to play "the role of the test dummy" by hopping in a car that simulates a crash to show just how its seat-belt tightener works..Hyundai Motor Co. of South Korea has its first-ever exhibit in Tokyo..General Motors Corp. is sponsoring its first independent display in 10 years.Ford and Chrysler have exhibits.
Ford and Chrysler also have exhibits.theirs are tucked in a separate room with the less-popular automotive parts section.
Even so, traditional American cockiness isn't terribly endangered.Ford officials crowed about their first-ever Tokyo Grand Prix racing victory.
True, Ford was declared the winner Sunday.only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified.
True, Ford was declared the winner Sunday.only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified.
True, Ford was declared the winner Sunday.but the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified.
True, Ford was declared the winner Sunday.but the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified.
but only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified.it hit another car and skid momentarily out of bounds.
Ford officials, for example, crowed about their first-ever Tokyo Grand Prix racing victory..True, Ford was declared the winner Sunday, but only after the Honda driver who crossed the finish line first was disqualified because it hit another car and skid momentarily out of bounds.Mr. Jordan of GM still criticizes Japanese styling.
The Republicans maintain that a 30% capital-gains exclusion will raise revenue in the short term and spur economic investment.the Democrats maintain that an increase in the top income-tax rate and expanded IRAs will raise revenue and spur savings.
The Republicans maintain that a 30% capital-gains exclusion will raise revenue in the short term and spur economic investment.the Democrats maintain that an increase in the top income-tax rate and expanded IRAs will raise revenue and spur savings.
PWA wouldn't estimate the value of Wardair's aircraft, which include 12 Airbus A310-300s and three Boeing 747-100s.James Ireland, a Miami-based technical analyst with Avmark Inc., an aircraft evaluation firm, estimated the total "half-life" value of the 15 planes at about $650 million or more.
PWA Corp. said it plans to sell by spring 1992 all 15 passenger planes it acquired earlier this year in its 248 million Canadian dollar (US$211.6 million) purchase of Wardair Inc.that PWA said it plans to sell, beginning in 1992.
current demand for used aircraft is strong.surging orders for new aircraft have lengthened waiting lists.
it plans to sell by spring 1992 all 15 passenger planes it acquired earlier this year in its 248 million Canadian dollar (US$211.6 million) purchase of Wardair Inc it plans to sell.it will increase its existing fleet of eight Boeing 767-300ER aircraft to 18 by 1994, and add four more Boeing 747-400s by 1994 to the two units that it previously planned to add by next year.
PWA didn't disclose the expected net cost of the fleet overhaul.a Toronto-based analyst estimated it at about $450 million (US), excluding replacement costs for the 11 DC10-30 aircraft that PWA plans to sell, and purchase costs for as many as 17 Airbus 320-200 aircraft that PWA previously ordered.
it plans to sell by spring 1992 all 15 passenger planes it acquired earlier this year in its 248 million Canadian dollar (US$211.6 million) purchase of Wardair Inc it plans to sell, beginning in 1992 it will also increase its existing fleet of eight Boeing 767-300ER aircraft to 18 by 1994, and add four more Boeing 747-400s by 1994 to the two units that it previously planned to add by next year.it expects to announce by Tuesday whether it will take delivery of all 17 Airbus 320-200 aircraft it previously ordered.
Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner now says the bill would further disturb the jittery capital markets.who fueled the anti-takeover fires with his quasi-xenophobic attacks on foreign investment in U.S. carriers.
Transportation Secretary Sam Skinner now says the bill would further disturb the jittery capital markets.who fueled the anti-takeover fires with his quasi-xenophobic attacks on foreign investment in U.S. carriers.
that the Fed can wipe out inflation without causing a recession.doing so will inflict some short-term pain and will require reducing the federal deficit sharply.
Such a deadline is attainable.it would have costs.
What seem to be interpreted as great conflicts are relatively minor issues of tactics.the Fed isn't enthusiastic about Treasury efforts to bring down the value of the dollar through intervention in foreign-exchange markets, and the Treasury is frustrated at the Fed's reluctance to cut interest rates to pull down the dollar's value.
But the Fed isn't enthusiastic about Treasury efforts to bring down the value of the dollar through intervention in foreign-exchange markets.the Treasury is frustrated at the Fed's reluctance to cut interest rates to pull down the dollar's value.
the inflation rate, currently about 4 1/2%, "could be brought down to levels which are close to zero without putting the economy into a recession.that there might be some modest loss of economic output.
the inflation rate, currently about 4 1/2%, "could be brought down to levels which are close to zero without putting the economy into a recession, but I do suspect that there might be some modest loss of economic output.economic growth would be lower and unemployment would be higher for a few years.
In other words, economic growth would be lower.unemployment would be higher for a few years.
that there might be some modest loss of economic output.that "whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability would surely be more than made up in increased output thereafter.
whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability.that "whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability would surely be more than made up in increased output.
whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability.that "whatever losses are incurred in the pursuing of price stability would surely be more than made up in increased output.
that Fed efforts to conquer inflation would fail.they are accompanied by a significant reduction in the federal deficit.
to reduce the inflation rate by one percentage point a year for five years.and to maintain a zero inflation rate.
He altered the wording to win Mr. Greenspan's endorsement.Reps..Hamilton and Dorgan have altered their bill, dropping a proposal to add the Treasury secretary to the 12-member Fed committee that makes monetary policy.
to add the Treasury secretary to the 12-member Fed committee that makes monetary policy.the bill simply calls for twice-a-year meetings between the committee and top administration officials.
Even that met with Mr. Greenspan's disapproval.it might subject the Fed "to a more intensely political perspective" and "could risk bending monetary policy away from long-term strategic goals.
together they would erode the Fed's independence.each of the Hamilton-Dorgan proposals represents only a small step.
While each of the Hamilton-Dorgan proposals represents only a small step, together they would erode the Fed's independence, Mr. Greenspan said.Mr. Greenspan said that although he favors cutting capital-gains taxes as sound economic policy, he would oppose such a move if it would undo the political compromise embodied in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and result in higher marginal income tax rates.
that he would oppose such a move if it would undo the political compromise embodied in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and result in higher marginal income tax rates.he favors cutting capital-gains taxes as sound economic policy.
that he would oppose such a move.it would undo the political compromise embodied in the Tax Reform Act of 1986 and result in higher marginal income tax rates.
The do-it-yourself show marks Sears's entry into the burgeoning market of home repair television programs and could bolster sales of its home improvement products.The show signals Mr. Vila's return as a television celebrity.
Earlier this year, public television station WGBH in Boston fired Mr. Vila.a sponsor protested some of his numerous commercial endorsements.
Earlier this year, public television station WGBH in Boston fired Mr. Vila.a sponsor protested some of his numerous commercial endorsements.
With Mr. Vila as host, "This Old House" became one of the Public Broadcasting Service's top 10 programs.Home Depot Inc., an Atlanta-based home center chain, objected when Mr. Vila started doing commercial endorsements for Rickel Home Centers, a New Jersey building supply company that competes with Home Depot in some markets.
But Home Depot Inc., an Atlanta-based home center chain, objected.Mr. Vila started doing commercial endorsements for Rickel Home Centers, a New Jersey building supply company that competes with Home Depot in some markets.
But Home Depot Inc., an Atlanta-based home center chain, objected.Mr. Vila started doing commercial endorsements for Rickel Home Centers, a New Jersey building supply company that competes with Home Depot in some markets.
it appears to be building a fence around Mr. Vila's affections.Sears wouldn't comment on the brouhaha over Mr. Vila's commercial endorsements.
Environmental groups have been calling for faster action on dangerous pesticides and may welcome part of the proposal.they are already objecting to, among other things, a plan to give more weight to cost-benefit considerations in evaluating pesticides.
The agency has since acted to remove Alar from the nation's grocery shelves by May 31, 1991.the apple industry has said that growers already have stopped using the chemical.
The principles would give the Environmental Protection Agency increased authority and flexibility in regulating pesticides, with the aim of enabling the agency to move more quickly.the principles attempt to eliminate the so-called Delaney Paradox.
Under the Delaney clause a chemical is banned.it causes cancer in laboratory animals.
Under the Delaney clause, which applies to processed food, a chemical is banned if it causes cancer in laboratory animals.Under other laws applying to pesticide use that same chemical could be allowed to be used on fresh food if it fell within the EPA's tolerance level.
Under other laws applying to pesticide use, however, that same chemical could be allowed to be used on fresh food.it fell within the EPA's tolerance level.
Bar states from setting more stringent tolerance levels for a pesticide.the federal government has set a standard.
Chemicals that exceed these risk levels would be barred.those that fall below these levels would be allowed.
Allow the EPA to permit the continued use of pesticides that exceed its negligible risk standard.the benefits of doing so outweigh the cost.
Yesterday's sluggish action was in marked contrast to the rearing and plunging of stock prices Tuesday.the proposed buy-out of UAL Corp. once again collapsed.
Yesterday's sluggish action was in marked contrast to the rearing and plunging of stock prices Tuesday.the proposed buy-out of UAL Corp. once again collapsed.
to head for the sidelines.it regains some semblance of stability.
action also was much slower yesterday in the Treasury market.bond prices weren't as volatile on Tuesday trading as stock prices.
Although bond prices weren't as volatile on Tuesday trading as stock prices.action also was much slower yesterday in the Treasury market.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average lost 5.94 points to 2653.28 in moderate trading.action was much slower yesterday in the Treasury market.
the report will show economic growth of about 2.5% in the third quarter, which would have little effect on financial markets.an unexpected deviation either way could roil bond and currency markets.
Stock prices slipped lower in moderate trading.advancing issues on the Big Board were ahead of decliners 784 to 700.
that not only was the bad rep of big-time college sports richly earned.also that it could be corrected.
that not only was the bad rep of big-time college sports richly earned.but that it could be corrected.
Competition could be maintained.stadiums probably would remain full.
Competition could be maintained.schedules were reduced and the games returned to the students.
if schedules were reduced.the games returned to the students.
I was approached by a man who identified himself as the alumni director of a Big Ten university.the session broke up.
I'd love to see sports cut back.so would a lot of my counterparts at other schools.
I'd love to see sports cut back, and so would a lot of my counterparts at other schools.everybody's afraid to make the first move.
but everybody's afraid to make the first move.so our institutions of higher learning lurch from scandal to scandal on gridiron and basketball court, while the casualties mount.
but everybody's afraid to make the first move.And our institutions of higher learning lurch from scandal to scandal on gridiron and basketball court, while the casualties mount.
And so our institutions of higher learning lurch from scandal to scandal on gridiron and basketball court.the casualties mount.
that prospects sang "Here Comes Santa Claus.he approached.
that prospects sang "Here Comes Santa Claus.he approached.
Which was about what Mr. Shields did, and quietly.he resigned a few years later.
until he resigned a few years later.the stuff hit the fan.
until he resigned a few years later.the stuff hit the fan.
one ex-player claims he received $4,000 to $5,000 for his season football tickets.others said theirs brought only a few hundred dollars.
Discrepancies go unexplained in "Confidential" (one ex-player claims he received $4,000 to $5,000 for his season football tickets while others said theirs brought only a few hundred dollars).when Mr. Keteyian can't nail down something, like who really owned a car driven by Husker tailback Doug Dubose, he simply reprints his notes.
and he simply reprints his notes.Mr. Keteyian can't nail down something, like who really owned a car driven by Husker tailback Doug Dubose.
A serious charge -- that star flanker Irving Fryar "threw" the 1984 Orange Bowl game by intentionally dropping a pass in the end zone -- is included.the Nebraska assistant coach quoted denied making it.
Discrepancies go unexplained in "Confidential" (one ex-player claims he received $4,000 to $5,000 for his season football tickets while others said theirs brought only a few hundred dollars), and when Mr. Keteyian can't nail down something, like who really owned a car driven by Husker tailback Doug Dubose, he simply reprints his notes..There are gratuitous references to supposed romantic liaisons between Husker players and a low-level female university employee..A serious charge -- that star flanker Irving Fryar "threw" the 1984 Orange Bowl game by intentionally dropping a pass in the end zone -- is included, even though the Nebraska assistant coach quoted denied making it.the book produces more smoke than a smoldering sofa, along with a few flames, especially concerning the use of steroids.
it must bear responsibility for its conduct in the aftermath.the university was no more to blame for that than for the similar fate of any other student.
to be cleaned.the police could arrive.
Bias's coach, Lefty Driesell, ordered the room in which Bias died to be cleaned before the police could arrive (the order wasn't carried out).the school's athletics director issued false information about the academic standing of Bias and other players.
Officials at the Department of Revenue had dogged the foreign car maker for taxes owed on business transactions and were proceeding to settle the dispute in court.the check arrived in the mail.
it didn't owe taxes to Massachusetts.it sells its cars at a dock in Baltimore and not in Massachusetts.
The amount covers taxes, interest and penalties owed from 1966 to 1985.Mercedes-Benz agreed to pay taxes owed for the years 1986 through 1988.
Under Massachusetts tax laws, corporations must pay 9.5% of estimated profits resulting from business transactions in the state.the company conducts a variety of non-sales activities, including warranties, customer complaints and relations with independent dealerships.
As part of the plan, the Houston-based company's 1,100 Stop 'N Go stores will be refocused to target black, Hispanic, upscale or core middle-class customers.Stores in upper-income neighborhoods will carry high-priced wines, publications such as Vanity Fair, gourmet pasta sauces, oat bran cereals and Weight Watchers and Pritikin products..Stores in Hispanic areas will stock an assortment of Spanish-language magazines, Mexican cooking items and candies..Stores in the company's core middle-class market will get more frozen and quick-to-prepare foods and a greater selection of bottled water.
National Convenience's move is likely to be echoed by other chains.that Southland Corp., owner of 7-Eleven stores, and Circle K Corp. are too debt-heavy to roll out such an extensive effort.
that Southland Corp., owner of 7-Eleven stores, and Circle K Corp. are too debt-heavy to roll out such an extensive effort.Southland said that its franchisees have been targeting their merchandise to their customers for years, and that the company has begun to follow suit.
that its franchisees have been targeting their merchandise to their customers for years.that the company has begun to follow suit.
that its franchisees have been targeting their merchandise to their customers for years, and that the company has begun to follow suit.Southland has expanded its bottled water selection in some stores and added fresh sandwiches in some outlets.
For instance, Southland has expanded its bottled water selection in some stores and added fresh sandwiches in some outlets.Several months ago, it added black health and beauty aids displays to many stores.
The union called the strike in April.Pittston refused to sign the UMW's national labor pact.
The union called the strike in April.Pittston refused to sign the UMW's national labor pact.
No schedule for formal talks was set.meetings are expected to begin soon.
its stock didn't trade and the company forecast a "significant" drop next year in sales of its core product.Delmed Inc. made top management changes and disclosed the end of an important business tie.
its stock didn't trade and the company forecast a "significant" drop next year in sales of its core product.Delmed Inc. made top management changes and disclosed the end of an important business tie.
its stock didn't trade.the company forecast a "significant" drop next year in sales of its core product.
That disclosure came.the American Stock Exchange alerted the company that trading wouldn't resume in its stock until additional information about developments was provided.
that trading wouldn't resume in its stock.additional information about developments was provided.
that trading wouldn't resume in its stock.additional information about developments was provided.
and the company forecast a "significant" drop next year in sales of its core product.In addition to the forecast, the company said it is examining potential cost cuts and reductions in overhead.
At the same time, the New Brunswick, N.J., company said negotiations about pricing and volumes of product had collapsed between it and its exclusive distributor in the U.S., National Medical Care Inc.Following that announcement Tuesday company officials were unavailable to elaborate.
The current distribution arrangement ends in March 1990.it will continue to provide some supplies of the peritoneal dialysis products to National Medical.
The current distribution arrangement ends in March 1990, although Delmed said it will continue to provide some supplies of the peritoneal dialysis products to National Medical.Delmed currently expects that 1990 sales . . . will be significantly below their 1989 level.
that Fresenius USA would begin distributing the product.that the company is investigating other possible distribution channels.
Fresenius, a West German pharmaceutical concern, has been discussing a transaction in which it would buy Delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70% and 80%.The transaction would combine Fresenius USA and Delmed.
Fresenius, a West German pharmaceutical concern, has been discussing a transaction in which it would buy Delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70% and 80%..The transaction also would combine Fresenius USA and Delmed.the plan now is being "reformulated.
that the proposal still would infuse cash into Delmed but less than the $10 million originally expected.Delmed would receive the North American rights to certain Fresenius AG products.
Brooks Armored Car Service Inc. never wanted to get into money laundering.July 5, a thunderstorm in Wilmington, Del., caused Shellpot Creek to rise 15 feet, pouring 1.3 million gallons of water into basement vaults..The water destroyed about $75 million in currency and caked $4 million of coins with mud, rendering them dangerous to counting machines.
The $75 million in paper money was exchanged through the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia without incident.moldy, mildewy and smelly.
The $75 million in paper money, although moldy, mildewy and smelly, was exchanged through the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia without incident.Brooks was unable to reach a coin-cleaning agreement with the government.
The U.S. Mint wouldn't take the coin.it wasn't mutilated.
The U.S. Mint wouldn't take the coin because it wasn't mutilated.the Federal Reserve Bank accepts only clean coins.
the agency offered to clean the coins for its "bare-bones" cost of $17,000 plus certain other expenses.Brooks declined.
that transporting the mucked up money to Washington would cost the company thousands more.Brooks gave the dirty work to Coin Wrap Inc.
After cooling.the coins are rewrapped.
Brooks expects to pay Coin Wrap a total of about $20,000 -- a cost that insurance won't cover.while the job is half done, Brooks is still bitter.
And Brooks is still bitter.the job is half done.
And Brooks is still bitter.there's only one person involved who's happy, and that's Floyd String, president of Coin Wrap and conceiver of the cement-truck solution.
In fact, there's only one person involved who's happy.that's Floyd String, president of Coin Wrap and conceiver of the cement-truck solution.
Not only did his company find $20,000 worth of work.when the approach was suggested Brooks officials "didn't laugh at me or anything.
but Brooks officials "didn't laugh at me or anything.the approach was suggested.
It seems that every day a new movie opens featuring a child coping with a mother's death, or adoption, or aging parents, or pregnancy.why not.
there's no place like home.it comes to compelling drama.
there's no place like home.it comes to compelling drama.
When it comes to compelling drama, there's no place like home.too many people working in Hollywood today seem to suffer from the delusion that the drama played out in every home will be interesting to people who live somewhere else.
This is not the case.there will be people who will sob at "Immediate Family," a limply constructed and offensive movie about adoption.
All of their friends have children.they can't.
All of their friends have children and they can't.now they want a child more than anything -- perhaps even more than Michael wanted his fancy convertible or his deluxe stereo equipment.
The idea of a child-as-required-yuppie-possession must be motivating them.the wealthy offspring of their friends are shown to be rude brats, in therapy by age five.
The actors wear pained expressions to indicate their genuine longing for a little one.maybe they're not-so-subtly commenting on the inadequacy of the script, and Jonathan Kaplan's ("The Accused") dull direction.
or maybe they're not-so-subtly commenting on the inadequacy of the script, and Jonathan Kaplan's ("The Accused") dull direction.maybe they are disgusted by the literal-minded musical score.
her thoughts are revealed by the sound of "I Can See Clearly Now.a character arrives at a major decision.
The adoption agency insists on introducing the adopting parents to the birth mother.Linda and Michael pay for pregnant Lucy's (Ms..Masterson) bus ticket from Ohio.
There is some pain.Lucy has the baby and "didn't know she would feel like this" and wants to keep the baby.
There is some pain.Lucy has the baby and "didn't know she would feel like this" and wants to keep the baby.
There is some pain, when Lucy has the baby and "didn't know she would feel like this" and wants to keep the baby.in the end, everything turns out for the best, in the film makers' warped view.
The glib emotional style Mr. Goldberg has perfected on television's "Family Ties" doesn't benefit from magnification..His characters practically scamper through a vast range of human emotions, like travelers doing 10 cities in eight days..They pause only to register little whimpers of distress and sighs of satisfaction, like tourists cataloging the sights they've seen from the window of a bus..Not even Jack Lemmon's expert doddering makes this trip worth taking.it's entirely possible that "Look Who's Talking" isn't as entertaining as it seems in comparison to the turgid other films opening now.
So it's entirely possible that "Look Who's Talking" isn't as entertaining as it seems in comparison to the turgid other films opening now.by comparison, this fluffy comedy seems like a gem.
So it's entirely possible that "Look Who's Talking" isn't as entertaining as it seems in comparison to the turgid other films opening now.But this fluffy comedy seems like a gem.
It starts with conception, taking the sperm's point of view.progresses to the baby's point of view.
Bruce Willis's best attribute as an actor is his coy, lazy voice.that's all you get of him here, speaking for the baby.
Supposedly, he proposed the movie to his producer, Claude Berri, in four lines: "An orphan bear cub..A big solitary bear..Two hunters in the forest..The animals' point of view.then, even a great many words couldn't summarize the extraordinary pull of this movie about an orphaned bear who adopts a parent.
Supposedly, he proposed the movie to his producer, Claude Berri, in four lines: "An orphan bear cub..A big solitary bear..Two hunters in the forest..The animals' point of view.But even a great many words couldn't summarize the extraordinary pull of this movie about an orphaned bear who adopts a parent.
Westinghouse Electric Corp. expects operating margins of more than 10% and double-digit per-share earnings growth next year.the company expects sales from continuing businesses to rise 8.5% annually through the next three years.
Since 1983, Westinghouse has shed 70 businesses that it didn't expect to produce 10% operating margins.acquiring 55 businesses.
Since 1983, Westinghouse has shed 70 businesses that it didn't expect to produce 10% operating margins.acquiring 55 businesses.
we can handle that.the gross national product is either flat or in the growth range of 2% to 2.5%.
excess capacity is beginning to shrink.Westinghouse hasn't had a nuclear power plant order from a U.S. utility in about a decade.
the company foresees the need for a major boost in new-generation capability throughout the 1990s.Westinghouse is well positioned to sell steam turbine and gas turbine plants to independent power producers.
We expect to supply a significant share of this market.Westinghouse expects its international sales to soon grow to 25% of total corporate sales from 20% last year.
The deal, which will involve an initial $20 million investment, was struck with a handshake, he added.Company officials said that any gain from the sale of Westinghouse's 55% stake in its transmission and distribution venture with the Swiss firm of Asea Brown Boveri will be offset by a restructuring charge in the fourth quarter.
governmental fear of abuse has risen.ties between academia and venture capital have blossomed in recent years.
governmental fear of abuse has risen.ties between academia and venture capital have blossomed in recent years.
The National Institutes of Health policy would require researchers to cut financial ties with health-care businesses.the guidelines could "make it impossible to commercialize research.
The researchers will receive a royalty, or percentage of sales.their research yields a commercial product.
The researchers, who are being financed by the Lithox funds, will receive a royalty, or percentage of sales, if their research yields a commercial product.because the University of California, like many other universities, shares its royalties with researchers, it may disqualify itself from federal funds under the proposed guidelines.
But it may disqualify itself from federal funds under the proposed guidelines.the University of California, like many other universities, shares its royalties with researchers.
The high-tech industry is full of the kind of arrangement that the new guidelines would affect.Commonwealth BioVentures Inc., a venture-capital concern, last month invested $600,000 to launch Amira Inc., a Worcester, Mass., concern that will produce pharmaceuticals.
Prof..Schimmel will continue to work at MIT, serve on Amira's board and own a small equity stake in the company.Ms. Kaddurah-Daouk left MIT to head Amira.
venture capitalists are the ones best positioned to finance its commercialization.universities develop the basic research.
Prof..Schimmel will continue to work at MIT, serve on Amira's board and own a small equity stake in the company.the new guidelines could prevent scientists like Prof..Schimmel from being involved with start-ups such as Amira.
But the new guidelines could prevent scientists like Prof..Schimmel from being involved with start-ups such as Amira.if that happens, the entire process of transferring technology to the marketplace could be harmed.
And the entire process of transferring technology to the marketplace could be harmed.that happens.
Investors were willing to gamble on new technologies.we had exclusive rights to those technologies.
In many of these deals, "venture capitalists had the inside track.under the proposed guidelines, all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly so that anyone can capitalize on the work.
But under the proposed guidelines, all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly.anyone can capitalize on the work.
But under the proposed guidelines, all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly so that anyone can capitalize on the work.Last year Avalon and others invested $14 million in Athena Neurosciences Inc., South San Francisco, Calif., to license and develop technology for delivery of drugs to the brain.
Last year, for example, Avalon and others invested $14 million in Athena Neurosciences Inc., South San Francisco, Calif., to license and develop technology for delivery of drugs to the brain.before Athena was able to get an exclusive license to the technology, the Federal Register published most of the details, "giving all of the company's potential competitors a chance to exploit it.
But the Federal Register published most of the details, "giving all of the company's potential competitors a chance to exploit it.Athena was able to get an exclusive license to the technology.
Athena eventually acquired exclusive rights to the technology and currently is developing it.It was a close call.
But under the proposed guidelines, all federally funded research will have to be reported publicly so that anyone can capitalize on the work.The proposed guidelines could delay commercialization -- and force small companies to waste scarce capital.
we have to replicate it ourselves or do without the research.start-ups can't have early access to research being conducted at institutions.
the guidelines are essential to prevent the escalation of problems that have already begun to surface in scientific ventures.Many officials are concerned about companies getting a "free ride" on government-sponsored research.
the business and scientific community is overreacting to what the agency merely meant to be "ideas for discussion.when agencies like the NIH circulate guidelines, they've often already formulated policy.
But they've often already formulated policy.agencies like the NIH circulate guidelines.
But when agencies like the NIH circulate guidelines, they've often already formulated policy.institutions already are taking note.
But when agencies like the NIH circulate guidelines, they've often already formulated policy.institutions already are taking note.
On Sept. 14, Harvard began circulating a conflict-of-interest policy statement that, in effect, would follow the NIH guidelines faithfully.The University of California at San Francisco is circulating a memo among its scientific faculty that will restrict contact with the world of business.
In many other institutions, scientists are shunning contacts with venture investors.the NIH policy is settled.
PBS air dates and times vary.check local listings.
Worth watching.the music has lasted better than the plot or the humor.
It's set in New York.it resonates with the terrible dynamics of the Latin American drug wars.
Critical opinion is divided about the success of Benton's populist defiance of modernist art.no one could disagree that Ken Burns has made a fascinating film about this famous American painter.
I've seen a great many moviestar film portraits.this one is outstanding.
You'll remember.you see the stunning footage taken from inside a hurricane's eye, in this edition of "NOVA.
L.J. Hooker filed for Chapter 11 protection in August.and has announced its intention to sell its B. Altman & Co. department store chain.
The cash from the sale will go to L.J. Hooker.the company itself will belong to Sam Merksamer.
In a statement, Mr. Merksamer described the filing as a "legal technicality.but said that "our inability to obtain trade credit, combined with a need to ensure that our stores were properly stocked for the Christmas season, necessitated our filing Chapter 11.
Renaissance declined to confirm the move.its stock purchases were thought to have begun Tuesday.
PaineWebber bought shares Tuesday as part of a customer strategy shift.the broker's client was said then to have been Japanese.
As reported, PaineWebber bought shares Tuesday as part of a customer strategy shift.although the broker's client was said to have been Japanese.
Renaissance's portfolio typically is composed of about 60 large-capitalization issues.it owns stocks.
The broker winning the business doesn't charge commissions.but profits by buying or selling for less than the overall package price.
The broker winning the business doesn't charge commissions.but profits by buying or selling for less than the overall package price.
That puts the broker at risk.it's trying to buy stock in a rising market.
The sell signal came.Renaissance's computer found that stocks were overpriced compared with bonds and Treasury bills.
The Dow average now stands more than 20% higher.Renaissance's portfolio of Treasurys produced a return of about 6% through the first three quarters of the year.
Almost any money manager holding stocks has turned in better results.Renaissance has played it safe with Treasury bills.
So why does Renaissance's computer like stocks with the Dow at 2653.28.it didn't with the Dow at 2200.
Three-month T-bill yields have fallen to 7.8% from about 9% at the start of the year.Stock prices are about 140 points lower than the peak of 2791.41 reached on the Dow industrial average Oct. 9.
Three-month T-bill yields have fallen to 7.8% from about 9% at the start of the year.Stock prices are about 140 points lower than the peak of 2791.41 reached on the Dow industrial average Oct. 9.
that it would take about three days to complete the loose ends of the transaction.there was such a move.
During that time, a buyer with the clout of a Renaissance could end up driving up the price of stocks it was trying to buy.it tipped its hand.
During that time, a buyer with the clout of a Renaissance could end up driving up the price of stocks it was trying to buy if it tipped its hand.everything is relative to Mr. Terrizzi.
But everything is relative to Mr. Terrizzi.stocks in his view can become more attractive in comparison with bonds or T-bills.
so stocks in his view can become more attractive in comparison with bonds or T-bills.shares are more expensive than when they were sold in January.
Renaissance switches.the computer says switch.
Almost all have involved at least half and often the firm's entire portfolio.the computer searches for the most undervalued investment category.
Competing asset-allocation firms march to their own computer models.some have been partly or fully invested in stocks this year while Renaissance has sat on the sidelines.
so some have been partly or fully invested in stocks this year.Renaissance has sat on the sidelines.
so some have been partly or fully invested in stocks this year.Renaissance has sat on the sidelines.
Competing asset-allocation firms march to their own computer models, so some have been partly or fully invested in stocks this year while Renaissance has sat on the sidelines.Renaissance has been looking for any opportunity to return to the stock market, rather than risk losing business by continuing to remain fully invested in Treasury bills.
some clients have left Renaissance, but no major ones.the firm has added new accounts.
who last week resigned as president and chief executive of Qintex Entertainment Inc. "for personal reasons.the company filed for bankruptcy-law protection.
David Evans has been temporarily reappointed to both positions, the company said.Qintex Entertainment said Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Jonathan Lloyd, 37 years old, would join the nine-member board.
Mr. Evans will stay but not later than the end of the year.a successor is found.
Qintex Entertainment found itself facing problems of its own.MGM/UA terminated the $1.5 billion merger because of a dispute over a $50 million letter of credit.
Qintex Entertainment -- which is 43%-owned by Qintex Australia -- found itself facing problems of its own.the relationship between Qintex Entertainment and the Australian company appears to be quickly deteriorating.
Qintex Entertainment was depending on Qintex Australia to arrange financing.early on Oct. 19, the second of two hectic days of board meetings, Mr. Evans said he believed Qintex Australia wouldn't be forthcoming.
He recommended that the company file for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code before the MCA deadline, according to a source familiar with the sessions.a majority of the board, which includes three members from the Australian company, overrode him.
Last week the company indicated it would cut back on the working capital it would supply to Qintex Entertainment.a Qintex Entertainment shareholder filed suit in federal court in Los Angeles charging Qintex Australia with misleading shareholders about Qintex Entertainment's financial position.
Charge With Caution.Traveling Abroad.
Charge With Caution.Traveling Abroad.
The Sept. 25 "Tracking Travel" column advises readers to "Charge With Caution When Traveling Abroad.credit-card companies charge 1% to convert foreign-currency expenditures into dollars.
The Sept. 25 "Tracking Travel" column advises readers to "Charge With Caution When Traveling Abroad" because credit-card companies charge 1% to convert foreign-currency expenditures into dollars.this is the best bargain available to someone traveling abroad.
who converts his dollars into foreign currency.the trip starts.
Typically, he will be billed only several weeks after the expenditure.and has another couple of weeks before he has to pay the bill.
and then has another couple of weeks.he has to pay the bill.
Typically, he will be billed only several weeks after the expenditure, and then has another couple of weeks before he has to pay the bill.the money can continue to earn interest for the card holder -- often more than 1% during that "float" period alone.
the Desert Inn remodeling will cost about $32 million.the refurbishment of the three DC-8-62 aircraft will cost around $24.5 million.
The facility will be marketed toward families.room rates will be between $35 and $55 a night.
The prospectus didn't include many details about the studio and theme park.conceptual drawings show that it may feature several "themed" areas similar to those found at parks built by Walt Disney Co.
Assets of the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report jumped to $351.2 billion in the week ended Tuesday.the average yield on taxable funds dropped nearly a tenth of a percentage point, the largest drop since midsummer.
Assets of the 400 taxable funds tracked by IBC/Donoghue's Money Fund Report jumped to $351.2 billion in the week ended Tuesday.the average yield on taxable funds dropped nearly a tenth of a percentage point, the largest drop since midsummer.
that dividends are reinvested.that current rates continue for a year.
Money funds invest in such things as short-term Treasury securities, commercial paper and certificates of deposit, all of which have been posting lower interest rates since last spring.Individual investors can get better yields on money funds than on many other short-term instruments.
Individual investors can still get better yields on money funds than on many other short-term instruments.The yield on six-month Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction was just 7.77%.
by extending the maturities of their investments.they can earn the current higher rates for a longer period.
They're anticipating further declines in rates.they're going to get them, slowly.
The average 30-day simple yield slid to 8.22% from 8.26%.the average 30-day compound yield fell to 8.56% from 8.60%.
They got hurt by investing in the highly risky junk bond market.the pain is worse because they did it with borrowed money.
and the pain is worse.they did it with borrowed money.
junk bond prices have been weak for months.the leverage has amplified the funds' portfolio losses.
Thus, the leverage has amplified the funds' portfolio losses.shares of leveraged junk funds this year have been clobbered even harder than the junk bonds they hold.
Share prices performed even worse than the funds' asset values.fear has taken hold" in the junk market.
Such problems may not be over.Leveraged funds are still extremely vulnerable.
Leveraged funds in particular "are still extremely vulnerable.we're still at the beginning of problems in the junk market.
they might shy away.someone actually sat down and thought about what they were being sold.
holders can make that much more profit.the market surges.
If the market surges, holders can make that much more profit; the leverage effectively acts as an interest-free margin account for investors.when the market moves against the fund, investors lose more than other junk holders because the market decline is magnified by the amount the fund is leveraged.
But investors lose more than other junk holders.the market moves against the fund.
But when the market moves against the fund, investors lose more than other junk holders.the market decline is magnified by the amount the fund is leveraged.
it enhances the yield.I am borrowing at 9.9% and each {bond} yields over that.
As long as I am borrowing at 9.9%.each {bond} yields over that.
Fund managers, for their part, defend their use of leverage.some funds have pulled in their horns.
what happens in a leveraged product.the market doesn't cooperate.
it will give a nice picture" of how leverage can help performance.the market turns around.
it will give a nice picture" of how leverage can help performance.the market turns around.
Several leveraged funds don't want to cut the amount they borrow.it would slash the income they pay shareholders.
Several leveraged funds don't want to cut the amount they borrow because it would slash the income they pay shareholders.a few funds have taken other defensive steps.
High cash positions help buffer a fund.the market falls.
High cash positions help buffer a fund.the market falls.
Some have raised their cash positions to record levels.Prospect Street High Income Portfolio now holds about 15% in cash and equivalents, nearly quintuple the amount it held earlier this year.
That's a problem.cash isn't earning us very much money.
At the 50%-leveraged Zenith Income Fund, portfolio manager John Bianchi recently dumped Mesa Petroleum, Wickes and Horsehead Industries, among others.Because of the recent junk-market turmoil, the fund is considering investing in other issues including mortgage-backed bonds.
At some point we're going to have to make a move.we are unable to cover our leveraged cost.
At some point, if we are unable to cover our leveraged cost we're going to have to make a move.at the moment we're right on it.
At some point, if we are unable to cover our leveraged cost we're going to have to make a move.at the moment we're right on it.
One of the more bizarre garden stories since Eden has been unfolding for four years now, in the private paper-and-crayon fantasies of artist Jennifer Bartlett.if she and the Battery Park City Authority have their way, her horticulturally inept plan will soon go public as a real garden "artwork" in the downtown complex.
And her horticulturally inept plan will soon go public as a real garden "artwork" in the downtown complex.she and the Battery Park City Authority have their way.
Last year she boasted to HG magazine: "I'd never looked at a garden in my life.she proved no shirking violet in her initial statement to the BPCA, a New York State public benefit corporation: "The only thing I was interested in doing was a very complicated garden, which would cost an enormous amount of money and be very expensive to maintain.
The BPCA called its team a "stunning" collaboration.After four years the South Gardens design is 100% uncollaborated Jennifer Bartlett.
She has done little more than recycle her standard motifs -- trees, water, landscape fragments, rudimentary square houses, circles, triangles, rectangles -- and fit them into a grid.she were making one of her gridded two-dimensional works for a gallery wall.
She has done little more than recycle her standard motifs -- trees, water, landscape fragments, rudimentary square houses, circles, triangles, rectangles -- and fit them into a grid, as if she were making one of her gridded two-dimensional works for a gallery wall.for South Gardens, the grid was to be a 3-D network of masonry or hedge walls with real plants inside them.
I have designed a garden, not knowing the difference between a rhododendron and a tulip.she proclaimed that "landscape architects have been going wrong for the last 20 years" in the design of open space.
Moreover, she proclaimed that "landscape architects have been going wrong for the last 20 years" in the design of open space.she further stunned her listeners by revealing her secret garden design method: Commissioning a friend to spend "five or six thousand dollars . . . on books that I ultimately cut up.
that she absolutely did not believe in compromise or in giving in to the client.I don't think you can do watered-down versions of things.
This was never a problem with South Gardens.the client had long since given in to Ms. Bartlett's every whim.
My loft was 50 by 100 feet.50 feet by 50 feet seemed like a good garden room.
Ms. Bartlett blithely suggested calling upon "semi-skilled garden club workers for maintenance.she had insisted on paths so narrow (five to eight feet) and hedge corners so square that standard maintenance equipment -- trucks or cherry pickers -- couldn't maneuver.
Furthermore, she had insisted on paths so narrow (five to eight feet) and hedge corners so square that standard maintenance equipment -- trucks or cherry pickers -- couldn't maneuver.to make these gardenettes quite literally rooms, Ms. Bartlett had thrown up windowless walls (brick, lattice, hedge) eight to 10 feet tall, casting her interiors into day-long Stygian shade.
Ms. Bartlett's little rooms left little room for plants or people Then, to make these gardenettes quite literally rooms, Ms. Bartlett had thrown up windowless walls (brick, lattice, hedge) eight to 10 feet tall, casting her interiors into day-long Stygian shade.flouting the BPCA's wishes to continue the popular two-mile riverside Esplanade, prized for its expansive views of New York Harbor, the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island, Ms. Bartlett threw up yet another wall, this time concrete, this time 10 1/2 feet tall.
Manhattan Community Board 1 passed a resolution against South Gardens.the model was still on view.
Bryant Park, as designed in 1933, failed as a public space.it made people feel trapped.
The three urban horticulture experts with Cornell Cooperative Extension weighed in with a letter to the BPCA that began: "We feel that the garden is horticulturally doomed.They addressed the decidedly "questionable safety of . . . a complex garden of endless hiding places.
BPCA President and CEO David Emil hopes to negotiate a seawall that could "be significantly more visually permeable.by substituting yet another landscape architect, Nicholas Quennell, he insists he can achieve that and other accommodations to gardening reality while still preserving the "artistic vision" of a "truly great artist.
he can achieve that and other accommodations to gardening reality.still preserving the "artistic vision" of a "truly great artist.
he can achieve that and other accommodations to gardening reality.still preserving the "artistic vision" of a "truly great artist.
After four years of no progress in this direction, it is doubtful any viable collaboration with Ms. Bartlett will suddenly now be possible.he plans to go with the grid.
After four years of no progress in this direction, it is doubtful any viable collaboration with Ms. Bartlett will suddenly now be possible.There is still time for Gov. Mario Cuomo or Fabian Palomino, chairman of the BPCA board, to prevent this topiary "Tilted Arc.
who seems to have had a Jennifer Bartlett in mind.he wrote: "Unhappily, our gardeners for ages have suffered at the hands of the decorative artist when applying his `designs' to the garden. . . . It is this adapting of absurd `knots' and patterns from old books to any surface where a flower garden has to be made that leads to bad and frivolous design -- wrong in plan and hopeless for the life of plants.
Unhappily, our gardeners for ages have suffered at the hands of the decorative artist.applying his `designs' to the garden.
Unhappily, our gardeners for ages have suffered at the hands of the decorative artist.applying his `designs' to the garden.
I read the exerpts of Wayne Angell's exchange with a Gosbank representative ("Put the Soviet Economy on Golden Rails," editorial page, Oct. 5) with great interest.the gold standard is one of my areas of research.
Mr. Angell is incorrect.he states that the Soviet Union's large gold reserves would give it "great power to establish credibility.
During the latter part of the 19th century, Russia was on a gold standard and had gold reserves representing more than 100% of its outstanding currency.no one outside Russia used rubles.
During the latter part of the 19th century, Russia was on a gold standard and had gold reserves representing more than 100% of its outstanding currency, but no one outside Russia used rubles.The Bank of England had gold reserves that averaged about 30% of its outstanding currency, and Bank of England notes were accepted throughout the world.
The Bank of England, on the other hand, had gold reserves that averaged about 30% of its outstanding currency.Bank of England notes were accepted throughout the world.
that the Bank of England was a private bank with substantial earning assets.the common-law rights of creditors to collect claims against the bank were well established in Britain.
that the Bank of England was a private bank with substantial earning assets, and the common-law rights of creditors to collect claims against the bank were well established in Britain.in 19th-century Russia an authoritarian government owned the bank and had the power to revoke payment whenever it chose, much as it would in today's Soviet Union.
and had the power to revoke payment whenever it chose.it would in today's Soviet Union.
the pound was never devalued.payment of gold for pound notes was never suspended.
that from 1844 to 1914, when the Bank of England was an independent private bank, the pound was never devalued and payment of gold for pound notes was never suspended.with the subsequent nationalization of the Bank of England, the pound was devalued with increasing frequency and its use as an international medium of exchange declined.
but with the subsequent nationalization of the Bank of England, the pound was devalued with increasing frequency.its use as an international medium of exchange declined.
The Soviet Union should keep these lessons in mind.it seeks to establish the ruble as an international currency.
The Soviet Union should keep these lessons in mind.it seeks to establish the ruble as an international currency.
however, a gold-based ruble would be as unsuccessful for the Soviets as it was for the czars.the laws determining the noteholder's rights to payment are independent of the issuer of those notes.
One way to make the ruble into a major international currency would be to leave reserves of gold and earning assets in a Swiss bank with distributions based on Swiss laws.Unless the laws determining the noteholder's rights to payment are independent of the issuer of those notes a gold-based ruble would be as unsuccessful for the Soviets as it was for the czars.
I'm perfectly happy to work with this committee . . . in identifying whether we need other devices," such as a program-trading curb.the SEC study of the drop is completed.
Mr. Breeden backed most of the provisions in a market-reform bill that the SEC brought to the subcommittee last year under then-chairman David Ruder.the new chairman vehemently opposed a provision in the bill that would give the agency the right to close the markets at times of stress.
precisely when and where any trading interruptions will occur.how long they will last.
Such loans often are used to finance leveraged buy-outs.the agency is worried that a sharp market drop could create capital problems for the firms.
Mr. Breeden offered strong support for two other provisions in the bill.He backed a rule to require large traders to report transactions on a systematic basis.
In a rare package sale of its real estate, K mart Corp., Troy, Mich., has sold 17 of its strip shopping centers to a limited partnership led by New York developer Philip Pilevsky, according to sources familiar with the transaction.K mart had announced it would report its third consecutive decline in quarterly earnings for the period ended yesterday, the same day the real estate deal was completed.
The company is active in office and residential development in New York.nationally, Mr. Pilevsky controls through limited partnerships about 85 shopping centers with about 17 million square feet.
We just don't have the staff to {deliver} it.do we have the space or the time.
Businesses across the country are getting fed up with junk mail.some are saying they just aren't going to take it anymore -- literally.
Businesses across the country are getting fed up with junk mail.some are saying they just aren't going to take it anymore -- literally.
direct-mail advertising firms say the number is growing.no one has tracked how many company mail rooms throw out junk mail.
it wouldn't deliver bulk mail or free magazines in its Flint, Mich., office.it screens junk mail and often throws out most of a given mass mailing.
it's growing even faster.direct mail to businesses isn't broken out separately.
The practice of businesses throwing out junk mail "is a commonly known problem.it's increasing as companies attempt to put through budget cuts across the board," right down to the mail-room level.
and it's increasing.companies attempt to put through budget cuts across the board," right down to the mail-room level.
and it's increasing.companies attempt to put through budget cuts across the board," right down to the mail-room level.
The practice of businesses throwing out junk mail "is a commonly known problem.it's like biting the hand that feeds them.
But it's like biting the hand that feeds them.every one of these companies uses direct marketing.
It's almost impossible to track the number of companies trashing junk mail.the decision is usually made in the mail room -- not the board room.
since the decision is usually made in the mail room -- not the board room.the practice often varies from location to location even within a company.
It's almost impossible to track the number of companies trashing junk mail, since the decision is usually made in the mail room -- not the board room..And the practice often varies from location to location even within a company.businesses seem especially inclined to dump mailers sent to titles rather than to individual names.
Magazines aren't delivered at all.an individual's name is listed.
Motorola's Austin operation was one of the first to lose patience, deciding a few years ago to junk any bulk mail that wasn't addressed to an individual.At Air Products the mailroom staff opens junk mail and often throws it away -- even if addressed to an individual.
At Air Products, meanwhile, the mailroom staff opens junk mail and often throws it away.addressed to an individual.
they open one, see what it says, throw 48 away and send two to people or departments they think are appropriate.they get 50 packets of something.
Direct marketers were especially alarmed.General Motors -- one of the country's largest companies and a big direct-mail user itself -- entered the junk-mail battle.
Direct marketers were especially alarmed.General Motors -- one of the country's largest companies and a big direct-mail user itself -- entered the junk-mail battle.
that they would have to have them sent home instead.they really wanted the publications.
delivering bulk mail and non-subscription magazines.that they would have to have them sent home.
delivering bulk mail and non-subscription magazines.that they would have to have them sent home.
Direct-mail executives see GM's stand as an ominous sign.the junk-mail kings did bring it on themselves.
It smacks of big brotherism.The practice is legal in most cases.
a company can do with it what it wishes.it gets there.
So far it hasn't had any noticeable effect on response rates.before it does, they're trying to cut back on the clutter that created the situation in the first place.
And they're trying to cut back on the clutter that created the situation in the first place.it does.
We're going to have to mail a lot less and a lot smarter.then again, mailing less and smarter won't be much help if the mail ends up in the garbage anyway.
But then again, mailing less and smarter won't be much help.the mail ends up in the garbage anyway.
One spot shows a Sonata next to a rival midsized car.an announcer says, "Listen to what they're saying about the Hyundai Sonata.
the other car, which is white, slowly turns green.the announcer reads favorable quotes about the model from Motor Trend and Road & Track magazines.
the wild reactions from the pool man, gardener and others.not given Chivas for Christmas.
when it was considered dead.and suddenly revived and was passed by the House.
Senate Democrats who favor cutting the capital-gains tax aren't ready to line up behind the leading Senate proposal.Oregon Sen. Bob Packwood, the ranking GOP member on the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, last night introduced his plan as an amendment to a pending measure authorizing U.S. aid for Poland and Hungary.
with Mr. Packwood saying he intended to offer the proposal again and again on future legislation.Sen. Mitchell saying he intended to use procedural means to block it again and again.
their votes aren't sufficient to pass it.the proposal appears to have general backing by Republicans.
Although the proposal appears to have general backing by Republicans, their votes aren't sufficient to pass it.Democrats are finding reasons to say no, at least for now.
The Packwood-Roth proposal would reduce the tax depending on how long an asset was held.It would create a new individual retirement account that would shield from taxation the appreciation on investments made for a wide variety of purposes, including retirement, medical expenses, first-home purchases and tuition.
A number of us are not going to touch capital gains, IRAs or anything else.it contributes to deficit-reduction.
President Bush has been hearing this kind of opposition first hand during meetings over the past two days with Democratic senators at the White House.at a luncheon meeting Tuesday of Democratic senators, there was outspoken opposition to cutting the capital-gains tax this year, according to participants.
that Democrats still are reluctant to publicly express support for the Packwood-Roth capital gains proposal.they are loath to buck Sen. Mitchell.
that Democrats still are reluctant to publicly express support for the Packwood-Roth capital gains proposal.they are open to making a variety of deals with Senate Democrats to win their support for a capital-gains tax cut.
White House officials acknowledged yesterday that Democrats still are reluctant to publicly express support for the Packwood-Roth capital gains proposal because they are loath to buck Sen. Mitchell.White House aides think that there are numerous other important measures Democrats badly wanted passed -- such as the scaling back of a controversial catastrophic health-care plan for the elderly -- that might provide the president leverage in cutting deals with Democrats.
administration officials also aren't ruling out making a deal with Congress to put off a vote until a firm date in the future, even next year.they can't secure immediate passage of a capital-gains plan.
In addition, White House aides think that there are numerous other important measures Democrats badly wanted passed -- such as the scaling back of a controversial catastrophic health-care plan for the elderly -- that might provide the president leverage in cutting deals with Democrats.administration officials aren't ruling out making a deal with Congress to put off a vote until a firm date in the future, even next year.
If they can't secure immediate passage of a capital-gains plan, administration officials also aren't ruling out making a deal with Congress to put off a vote until a firm date in the future, even next year.the officials insist that such a deal on a future vote would have to apply to both the House and the Senate.
During the past administration the foodstuffs were first bought by the institute.sold at low prices to "unscrupulous businessmen" who resold them to the institute at inflated prices.
vengeance.Italy refuses to pay compensation for more than 30 years of colonial rule.
attacks on Italians.Rome doesn't pay compensation.
Libya's revolutionary Committees have threatened attacks on Italians if Rome doesn't pay compensation.officials in Rome say the issue was legally resolved by a settlement between Italy and King Idris.
Canadian Indians are taking five countries to court in a bid to stop low military flights over their homes.They wanted to prevent a NATO training base being built in the region.
Japan suspended imports of French mushrooms.finding some contaminated by radiation.
Japan suspended imports of French mushrooms.finding some contaminated by radiation.
In 1986, some institute patients were reporting breakthrough seizures.they were switched from a specific brand-name medication to a generic one or from one generic manufacturer of a specific product to another.
In 1986, some institute patients were reporting breakthrough seizures.they were switched from a specific brand-name medication to a generic one or from one generic manufacturer of a specific product to another.
In 1986, some institute patients were reporting breakthrough seizures when they were switched from a specific brand-name medication to a generic one or from one generic manufacturer of a specific product to another.neurologists were beginning to report these observations as well.
Call it anecdotal.you will.
Call it anecdotal if you will.no ethical physician would switch patients who were doing well on a specific medication from a specific manufacturer to prove a point.
The funds received from pharmaceutical firms are used to offset physician symposiums.these symposiums do not stress any particular medication or manufacturer.
This perhaps was perceived as a "bold" stance, and thus suspicious.let us not confuse profits of big business masquerading as concerns for people's health care or for the cost.
The Excalibur, with a castlelike hotel, jousting tournaments and other Arthurian attractions, will be able to handle up to 30,000 visitors a day.it opens in 1990.
the investment in the three properties will total some $1.6 billion.MGM Grand Inc. proceeds with its plan for an amusement park -- a $700 million movieland resort with a working studio, casino and 5,000-room hotel that would become Las Vegas's biggest.
you create a wonderment.they'll come.
you create something so exciting that the public dreams of being part of it.they'll come.
Hotel-casino operators play down the possibility of a labor shortage..After all, 40,000 newcomers a year are settling in the Las Vegas Valley.Nevada state labor economists think a shortage is probable.
it will catch more mice.you build a better mousetrap.
I'd love it.my daughter had something else to do here.
Casinos today offer bowling alleys, water parks, golf courses, tennis courts, lush swimming pools and other diversions.more such facilities are being designed.
Casinos today offer bowling alleys, water parks, golf courses, tennis courts, lush swimming pools and other diversions, and more such facilities are being designed.Despite the new emphasis on the family trade tourists in search of naughtier fun than gambling seem certain to find it, with Las Vegas call girls remaining on the scene.
A serious economic downturn, pessimists observe, could hurt the expansionists.For now the naysayers' voices are drowned by the roar of cement mixers and the clanging of construction cranes along the Strip.
This is no place for pedestrians.at 7:30 on a recent morning, when construction choked traffic at the famous Four Corners intersection to one lane, a taxi passenger found it faster to abandon the cab and walk to her destination.
The ferocious competition probably will drive some poorly managed properties into bankruptcy or new ownership.that hasn't discouraged investors.
the Strip's recent expansion squeezed smaller competitors.the huge new projects began.
a room-rate war.the new projects open.
There's probably going to be some pressure on occupancy and room rates over the next year.after that you should see the market return to 80%-plus occupancy and regular rates.
Mr. Wynn seems confident that it will produce a healthy profit.some securities analysts doubt it.
Its parking lot is inconvenient, the MGM lion's-head logo still appears in places.customers still call it the Grand, rather than the Bally Grand.
It has a "great location.they're going to have some real problems when everyone around them opens.
but they're going to have some real problems.everyone around them opens.
but they're going to have some real problems.everyone around them opens.
but they're going to have some real problems when everyone around them opens.Older properties that still have a 1950s image are vulnerable.
bigger won't make you better.you don't know what you are.
bigger won't make you better.it'll sure make you poorer.
The Circus Circus lures them with low room rates, inexpensive buffets and entertainment for children at no extra charge.The company's Excalibur will appeal to families, of course.
to add rooms.to reinforce the identity that they believe attracts their customers.
to add rooms.to reinforce the identity that they believe attracts their customers.
it has decreased the number of its rooms.his company's hotel is building a retail complex in Beverly Hills style and redoing existing rooms.
it has decreased the number of its rooms.his company's hotel is building a retail complex in Beverly Hills style and redoing existing rooms.
Caesars has made a specialty of catering to high rollers from abroad.who are being aggressively courted by the Mirage, the Las Vegas Hilton and others.
Caesars has made a specialty of catering to high rollers from abroad, who are also being aggressively courted by the Mirage, the Las Vegas Hilton and others.Other, smaller concerns are pursuing market niches -- Hawaiian tourists, for example, or the local trade.
The days when when the thrust of casinos was all high rollers, with no windows and clocks and lots of red and black decor, are gone.93% of tourists still come for gambling.
Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall be presented to the President of the United States.it becomes a Law.
he shall sign it.he approve.
If he approve he shall sign it.if not he shall return it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it.
it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered.after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill.
to reconsider it.by which it shall be reconsidered.
If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered.if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall become a Law.
and it shall become a Law.approved by two thirds of that House.
and shall be approved by him.the Same shall take Effect.
On Tuesday, the subject came up again.Marlin Fitzwater explained the constitutional argument based on the provisions above to the White House press corps.
President Bush doesn't have any provision in mind.line-item-veto bait will be like earthworms at midnight in the coming Continuing Resolution.
The 1974 budget "reform," passed over President Nixon's veto, took away the presidential impoundment power.introducing monstrous CRs and eviscerating the presidential veto.
Finding a test case shouldn't be hard.there is something to be said for picking the best one possible.
The White House had the perfect case.Congress blinked before it could go to court.
but Congress blinked.it could go to court.
some Congressmen began to worry that their influence peddling at executive-branch and independent agencies might some day get them in trouble.the HUD and S&L stories broke.
some Congressmen began to worry that their influence peddling at executive-branch and independent agencies might some day get them in trouble.the HUD and S&L stories broke.
Congress caved.it threatened to use this provision as the test for a line-item veto.
Congress caved.it threatened to use this provision as the test for a line-item veto.
Rep. John Dingell is trying again to raise the Fairness Doctrine from the dead.the White House is looking for another unconstitutional bill.
the rules squelch lively discussions on broadcasts, deterring feisty challengers.There are other provisions requiring Congressmen to join treaty-negotiating teams and new restrictions on OMB.
Unconstitutional bills make good legal targets.the line-item veto is better understood as a political opportunity than as mere fodder for lawyers.
The perception out there is that it's the fault of Congress.you can look to the leadership and ask them why that is the perception of the American people.
Congress is in no position to naysay Mr. Bush.we're into Gramm-Rudman's sequestration.
Congress may have lost any sense of discipline.that doesn't mean the country must learn to live forever with this mess.
President Bush has the power to change how Washington works.he will use it.
The leveraged buy-out firm of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. indicated in the debt plan that it would reduce its equity stake to 15%.KKR signaled to the company's creditors that Henry Kravis and other KKR directors of SCI TV would resign from the board once the restructuring is completed and forgo their voting rights.
that Henry Kravis and other KKR directors of SCI TV would resign from the board.the restructuring is completed.
Investors interpreted the KKR move as a desire by the firm to wash its hands of SCI TV.that with only a 15% equity stake, it wouldn't be appropriate for KKR to keep board representation.
KKR already has made about $1 billion of gains from earlier transactions with SCI TV.it isn't significantly affected by the company's troubles.
KKR would give up a 31% equity stake to bondholders.Mr. Gillett would surrender an 8% stake.
KKR would give up a 31% equity stake to bondholders.Mr. Gillett would surrender an 8% stake.
many junkholders had been hoping that KKR and Mr. Gillett would invest new money in SCI TV.one big SCI TV investor thinks that's pretty generous.
SCI TV's debt restructuring plan would defer payment of $153 million of bank debt.It would defer interest and principal on junk bonds that have fallen due.
the restructuring would cut the company's annual cash interest bill from about $90 million to $85 million.to pay that interest bill SCI TV will only produce about $80 million to $90 million of cash flow a year.
club owners know the future lies with the lumpier over-40 set.their ads picture curvy young people in skimpy outfits.
that is often whitish.taken from the ground.
We believe that the vast majority of imported material is safe.there is a small risk that some were imported with high radiation levels.
that the stones found in Hong Kong are thought to carry double the U.S. radiation limit.that double or even triple the U.S. limit is "still in the range of safe levels.
CAPITAL TRAVELS to Europe.1992 unification nears.
DRACULA'S BUSY this time of year.a visit to his Transylvania castle is part of a Chicago-based Unitours trip in the spring, presumably the count's off-season.
AM radio, which has been losing listeners to FM channels since the 1970s, approaches the 1990s with a diminished voice.it may have a good listener in Washington.
The commission believes that improving AM service would broaden listening selections and increase options for advertisers.The issues are thought to be important to the FCC's new chairman, Alfred Sikes, a former AM broadcaster in his native Missouri.
considered technically superior.it can carry stereo broadcasts.
AM stereo remains largely undeveloped.it lacks a uniform delivery system.
Listeners turned to radios run on batteries for news.the San Francisco earthquake and Hurricane Hugo cut power lines.
Listeners turned to radios run on batteries for news.the San Francisco earthquake and Hurricane Hugo cut power lines.
Several big securities firms backed off from program trading a few months after the 1987 crash.most of them, led by Morgan Stanley & Co., moved back in earlier this year.
Index arbitrage doesn't work.it scares natural buyers" of stock.
he said that "on an intraday basis, it has major effects.Mr. Timbers explained he's "not totally convinced index arbitrage changes the overall level of the stock market.
and told them to cool it.they're ruining the market.
They said, `Too bad.we finally said we're not going to do business with them.
Kemper Financial Services Inc., charging that program trading is ruining the stock market, cut off four big Wall Street firms from doing any of its stock-trading business.Kemper blasted the Big Board for ignoring the interests of individual and institutional holders.
It has never been interested in what we think.The Big Board has a terrible communication problem with individual investors.
they'd love to do away with it {program trading}.they {the exchange} can't do it.
the market's volatility disturbs him.that all the exchange can do is "slow down the process" by using its circuit breakers and shock absorbers.
We would stop index arbitrage.the market is under stress.
We would stop index arbitrage when the market is under stress.we have recently.
that "having just one firm do this isn't going to mean a hill of beans.if this prompts others to consider the same thing, then it may become much more important.
this prompts others to consider the same thing.But it may become much more important.
There are $12,915,000 of 7% term certificates due 2007, priced to yield 7.15%.There are $29 million of 6 3/4% certificates due 2019, priced to yield 7.10%.
The dress business has always been a gamble.it's never been like this.
Next week, the country's top designers and manufacturers will begin showing fashions for spring 1990, the second most important selling season of the year.as the applause dies down in showrooms along Seventh Avenue and Broadway, stylishly clad Campeau buyers will begin writing orders.
And stylishly clad Campeau buyers will begin writing orders.the applause dies down in showrooms along Seventh Avenue and Broadway.
Many manufacturers are worried about being paid for merchandise already shipped to Campeau stores.those dollars at risk pale in comparison to the investment required to make and ship spring goods to Campeau stores.
What happens to me.Campeau collapses between now and then.
that their clients study each order.shipping.
Payments are good right now.we aren't recommending any long-term lines of credit.
they will ask for letters of credit.shipping spring merchandise.
We're being paid today.we're worried about tomorrow and will want" letters of credit.
I will.I need to ask for money up front later.
I'm going to ship.If I need to ask for money up front.
They continue to pay their bills and will do so.we'll be paying our bills for spring merchandise.
manufacturers expect to be paid by Nov. 10.goods are shipped to Bloomingdale's between Oct. 1 and Oct. 20.
Typically, manufacturers are paid 10 days after the month in which they ship.manufacturers now buying fabric for spring season goods won't be paid until March, April or even May.
We expect they will be current with their debts by the end of the week.we are considering asking them for letters of credit before we take more orders.
asking them for letters of credit.we take more orders.
Not only does your product have to be excellent.you also have to be able to collect.
I've got limited production.I can't give it to underperformers.
I've got limited production.I can't give it to underperformers.
he will maintain his credit lines with the various Campeau stores.they miss a payment.
I'll stop.they slip for 10 cents for 10 minutes.
Bethlehem Steel Corp. posted a 54% drop in third-quarter profit.two more of the nation's top steelmakers -- Armco Inc. and National Intergroup Inc. -- reported lower operating earnings in their steel businesses.
It doesn't bode well for coming quarters.several steelmakers will report actual losses through the third quarter of 1990.
It hasn't diversified beyond steel.has it linked up with a joint venture partner to share costs and risks.
Of all the major steelmakers, Bethlehem would seem to be the most vulnerable to a slowdown.in spite of the difficult industrywide environment of high cost and low volume, Bethlehem "had pretty good earnings numbers.
However, in spite of the difficult industrywide environment of high cost and low volume, Bethlehem "had pretty good earnings numbers.Bethlehem's core basic steel operations experienced a steep drop in operating profit to $58.6 million from $186.4 million a year ago.
that steel market conditions will exhibit a further moderate decline in the fourth quarter.the automotive sector remains weak and customers continue to adjust inventories.
that steel market conditions will exhibit a further moderate decline in the fourth quarter.the automotive sector remains weak and customers continue to adjust inventories.
as the automotive sector remains weak.customers continue to adjust inventories.
that steel market conditions will exhibit a further moderate decline in the fourth quarter as the automotive sector remains weak and customers continue to adjust inventories.that the company's order entry has increased from the low levels of the early summer, following the end of labor negotiations.
Sales dropped to $441.1 million from $820.4 million.the company no longer consolidates its Eastern Steel division.
by holding higher-cost inventory.raw material costs of such key products as nickel dropped.
Along with reduced volume the nation's fifth largest steelmaker was hurt by holding higher-cost inventory when raw material costs of such key products as nickel dropped.higher sales and shipments to service centers from its Armco Steel Co. joint venture failed to offset weakness in the automotive market, higher production costs and a poorer product mix.
that its Fox-Meyer Drug Co., Ben Franklin Stores Inc. and Permian Corp. operations showed improvements as a result of restructuring moves.its equity in the net income of National Steel declined to $6.3 million from $10.9 million as a result of softer demand and lost orders following prolonged labor talks and a threatened strike.
it agreed to let Motorola Inc. participate in a semiconductor research project as part of its effort to bolster the U.S. semiconductor industry.it invited many other companies to participate including some from Europe.
it invited many other companies to participate as well, including some from Europe.IBM is considering letting other companies participate in additional semiconductor work but declined to be more specific.
IBM has become far more open about its technology.it has tried to rally U.S. industry to head off the Japanese.
it doesn't make the equipment needed to produce those chips.IBM, Armonk, N.Y., makes the bulk of the DRAMs it uses.
While IBM, Armonk, N.Y., makes the bulk of the DRAMs it uses, it doesn't make the equipment needed to produce those chips.IBM worries that the Japanese will take over that equipment market, too, unless U.S. semiconductor companies produce enough memory chips here to keep U.S. equipment makers healthy.
that the Japanese will take over that equipment market, too.U.S. semiconductor companies produce enough memory chips here to keep U.S. equipment makers healthy.
International Business Machines Corp. said it agreed to let Motorola Inc. participate in a semiconductor research project as part of its effort to bolster the U.S. semiconductor industry.IBM said it expects to benefit from the expertise that Motorola and other companies can bring to bear on the difficult problems involved in semiconductor manufacturing.
it expects industrywide efforts to become prevalent.semiconductor manufacturing has become so expensive.
but costs $500 million today.the technology is so complex.
it expects industrywide efforts to become prevalent because semiconductor manufacturing has become so expensive.it expects the costs to continue climbing.
some companies had turned down its invitation to join in.that was mainly because the project may not bear fruit until the mid-1990s.
that was.the project may not bear fruit until the mid-1990s.
more companies would become interested.the project progresses.
Currently, chips are produced by shining light through a mask to produce an image on the chip, much as a camera produces an image on film.details on chips must now be extraordinarily fine, and the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough so that the images they draw may be too blurry.
But details on chips must now be extraordinarily fine.the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough so that the images they draw may be too blurry.
But details on chips must now be extraordinarily fine.the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough so that the images they draw may be too blurry.
and the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough.the images they draw may be too blurry -- much as someone using a wide paintbrush could produce a broad line but would have trouble painting a thin one.
and the wavelengths of even ultraviolet light are long enough so that the images they draw may be too blurry -- much as someone using a wide paintbrush could produce a broad line but would have trouble painting a thin one.X-rays travel straighter and can be focused more tightly than light.
X-rays have problems, too.assuming those problems can be overcome, they should allow for memory chips that could approach one billion bits of information -- 250 times as much as is contained in the four-megabit chips that are just reaching the market and a million times what was possible in the mid-1970s.
The airborne system operates independent of ground-based radar systems, informing pilots of nearby aircraft.The system provides course-correction advisories.
Bertin Nadeau, newly appointed chairman and interim chief executive of Provigo, wouldn't say if Mr. Lortie was asked to leave.Mr. Nadeau is chairman and chief executive of Unigesco Inc., Provigo's controlling shareholder.
Mr. Lortie's departure was seen as inevitable in light of the shift in strategy.sudden.
The non-food operations were largely Mr. Lortie's creation.his strategy didn't work.
to remain Provigo's chief executive.the non-food businesses are sold.
Comments by Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan lent some support to the dollar.the U.S. unit ended yesterday lower against most major currencies.
In perhaps his most telling remark, Mr. Greenspan termed the current U.S. inflation rate of around 4.5% as "much too high to be ignored.He added that inflation could be brought down "close to zero" without throwing the economy into a recession.
settling lower in later trade.dealers squared positions ahead of today's preliminary report on third-quarter U.S. gross national product.
the U.S. currency will remain stuck in its relatively narrow ranges in the near term.and shift lower.
Many traders forecast a continuation of the market's recent bearish trend and predict the U.S. currency will remain stuck in its relatively narrow ranges in the near term and then shift lower.according to Doug Madison, a corporate trader with Bank of America in Los Angeles, a large number of short positions must first be corrected, spurring a temporary upswing, before the unit can turn lower.
But according to Doug Madison, a corporate trader with Bank of America in Los Angeles, a large number of short positions must first be corrected.the unit can turn lower.
today's GNP report will offer more substantial evidence on U.S. economic growth.that the figures may overstate the economy's vigor.
that it would take a significantly stronger figure to alter market perceptions that the economy is softening.the third-quarter figures may appear relatively bullish.
it acquired United Republic Reinsurance Co., a Houston property and casualty reinsurance company, from United Savings Association of Texas for $28 million.Lawrence Insurance sold 3.2 million of its shares for $7.125 each to its parent, Lawrence Group Inc.
Lawrence Group increased its stake in Lawrence Insurance to 93.2% from 91.2%.Lawrence Group owns Lawrence Agency Corp., Schenectady, N.Y., an insurance agency and brokerage.
Wall Street would like UAL Corp. 's board to change its mind about keeping the company independent.what happens next in the continuing takeover drama may depend more on the company's two most powerful and fractious unions: the pilots and machinists.
that the collapse of the previous $6.79 billion buy-out, if anything, may have strengthened the hands of these two labor groups.both may now have virtual veto power over any UAL transaction.
One reason: banks probably will insist on labor harmony.they agree to put up cash for any new bid or even a less-ambitious recapitalization plan.
you've got no revenue.you have both {labor} groups on strike.
If you have both {labor} groups on strike, you've got no revenue.that's a very scary thing for a bank to be looking at.
where the union would stand.another bid or recapitalization became possible.
to be more aggressive.a second buy-out attempt occurs.
The two unions already had significant leverage.their employer has yet to settle with either on new contracts.
That gives them both the threat of a strike and the ability to resist any wage concessions that may be necessary to make a transaction work.even investors who are pushing for the board to do a recapitalization that would pay shareholders a special dividend and possibly grant employees an ownership stake acknowledge that the unions are key.
the UAL board should be ousted.it doesn't move soon to increase shareholder value.
The pilots will be involved in any transaction that takes place around here.whether the pilots can team up with their longtime adversaries, the machinists, is another question.
his union would like majority ownership for employees.the machinists have always opposed majority ownership in principle.
On the other hand, the machinists have always opposed majority ownership in principle.in recent days, machinists' union leaders have shown some new flexibility.
they can do a transaction without the support of the machinists.a compromise can't be reached.
If a compromise can't be reached, the pilots maintain they can do a transaction without the support of the machinists.at this point, that may just be wishful thinking.
The machinists lobbied heavily against the original bid from UAL pilots and management for the company..Their opposition helped scare off some Japanese banks.The pilots' insistence on majority ownership may make the idea of a recapitalization difficult to achieve.
a recapitalization involving employee ownership would succeed.the pilots relent on their demand for control.
Ms. Browning says she believes a recapitalization involving employee ownership would succeed only if the pilots relent on their demand for control.She notes that even if the pilots accept a minority stake now, they still could come back at a later time and try to take control.
that they still could come back at a later time and try to take control.the pilots accept a minority stake now.
The group didn't make a formal offer.instead told UAL's advisers before the most-recent board meeting that it was working on a bid valued at between $225 and $240 a share.
The group didn't make a formal offer.but told UAL's advisers before the most-recent board meeting that it was working on a bid valued at between $225 and $240 a share.
The group didn't make a formal offer, but instead told UAL's advisers before the most-recent board meeting that it was working on a bid valued at between $225 and $240 a share.again, they may need the help of the machinists.
Passenger traffic jumped 14% in the quarter.profit per passenger grew 2%.
the Texas Air Corp. subsidiary was only beginning to get back on its feet during the quarter.Eastern is back to about 80% of its pre-strike schedule now.
Delta Air Lines earnings soared 33% to a record in the fiscal first quarter, bucking the industry trend toward declining profits.America West Airlines, Phoenix, Ariz., reported third-quarter profit jumped 45% to $5.8 million, or 28 cents a share, from $4 million, or 24 cents a share, a year earlier.
Delta Air Lines earnings soared 33% to a record in the fiscal first quarter, bucking the industry trend toward declining profits.America West Airlines, Phoenix, Ariz., reported third-quarter profit jumped 45% to $5.8 million, or 28 cents a share, from $4 million, or 24 cents a share, a year earlier.
In the U.S., the Hartford Courant has a facsimile edition.some other newspapers are considering the idea.
It was the first management change.film-makers Daniel Grodnik and Tim Matheson took control of National Lampoon Inc. in March.
The results include a $130.2 million write-down of the securities in the high-yield portfolio to the lower of their cost or market value.Columbia added $227.3 million to reserves for losses on the portfolio.
Previously, Columbia didn't have to adjust the book value of its junk-bond holdings to reflect declines in market prices.it held the bonds as long-term investments.
accounting rules require the thrift to value the bonds at the lower of cost or market prices.Columbia now must sell the bonds within five years.
The loss stems from $357.5 million of write-downs on Columbia's $4.4 billion high-yield investment securities portfolio.The quarterly results reflected $21.4 million in non-recurring losses from commercial real-estate activities in California.
that the thrift was "disappointed" by the effects of the accounting changes.Columbia remains "one of the most strongly capitalized thrifts in the industry," based on the economic value of its assets and tangible capital.
The price of Columbia shares has been cut nearly in half since August.investors apparently realized that the thrift would be forced to take a big write-down.
The price of Columbia shares has been cut nearly in half since August.investors apparently realized that the thrift would be forced to take a big write-down.
they don't know how quickly they will dispose of the thrift's junk bonds.federal regulations, such as those that would allow thrifts to continue holding the bonds in separately capitalized subsidiaries, haven't yet been completed.
Columbia officials said they don't know how quickly they will dispose of the thrift's junk bonds, because federal regulations, such as those that would allow thrifts to continue holding the bonds in separately capitalized subsidiaries, haven't yet been completed.Columbia officials said the thrift shouldn't face problems meeting regulatory capital requirements, despite the large reserves and write-downs and stiffer regulatory requirements that should be in place by year's end.
Its ratio of tangible equity to total assets as of Sept. 30 was 3.6%.total equity was $457.9 million.
the ultimate gain on the sale of those assets will range from $200 million to $300 million.many of the transactions related to those securities haven't been completed.
the ultimate gain on the sale of those assets will range from $200 million to $300 million.Columbia has unrealized gains in its public equity securities portfolio of more than $70 million.
setting the stage for a potentially bruising price war.the maturing industry's growth continues to slow.
Anheuser, the world's largest brewer and U.S. market leader, has historically been reluctant to engage in price-cutting as a means of boosting sales volume.With the passing of the heady days of swelling industry sales the once-sporadic and brief forays into discounting are becoming standard competitive weapons in the beer industry.
with sales volume being essentially flat.consolidation creates fewer, bigger players.
Anheuser is the biggest guy in the bar.he just decided to join in the barroom brawl.
Mr. Thompson noted that the disappointing earnings, which fell five cents a share short of his own projections, contributed to the sell-off by an edgy and currently unforgiving investing public.Smith Barney's Mr. Doyle, who yesterday trimmed his 1990 Anheuser earnings projection to $2.95 a share from $3.10, called the market's reaction "justified.
the real bad news is the intensity of price competition" in the premium-beer sector.the third-quarter earnings were a "moderate disappointment.
On Wednesday, the market opened bullishly with high turnover, ignoring the volatility in New York stocks.losers were spread in a broad range by the end of the session.
individual investors dumped NTT shares amid growing expectation for a division of the company as suggested by a recent government-sponsored panel.they took profits to reduce holdings in their own account at the end of the October transaction period.
Among pharmaceutical shares, Chugai lost 60 yen to 2,290 yen ($16.20).Mochida fell 150 to 4,290.
which fell 40 to 1,520..Toyota Motor fell 40 to 2,680..Sekisui House lost 70 to 2640.Daiwa House ended easier.
Daiwa House also ended easier.Misawa Home was firmer.
Pioneer was down 90 at 5,810.Sony lost 40 to 8,550, down 10% from its record set Oct. 11.
London share prices closed modestly higher largely on technical factors.the market was underpinned near the end of the session by Wall Street's firmer trend.
The late buying was drawn into the London market.Wall Street showed signs of stability following its rocky opening.
Jaguar was boosted 21 to 715 on follow-through buying.Ford Motor's announcement Tuesday that it might be prepared to mount a full bid for the U.K. luxury auto maker.
Equities tumbled at the opening.Tuesday's gyrations on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average recovered most of an 80-point loss, fueled fears of another stock market crash.
Equities tumbled at the opening.Tuesday's gyrations on Wall Street, where the Dow Jones Industrial Average recovered most of an 80-point loss, fueled fears of another stock market crash.
All the positive figures on the economy are out already.people are focusing more on the dangers for next year, mostly the wage talks and the {parliamentary} elections.
All the positive figures on the economy are out already, and people are focusing more on the dangers for next year, mostly the wage talks and the {parliamentary} elections.The market shrugged off positive factors, such as higher bond prices and a slowdown in monetary growth in September.
the bearish mood to persist a while longer.trading volume is falling toward the end of the year and the market is becoming more volatile.
the bearish mood to persist a while longer.trading volume is falling toward the end of the year and the market is becoming more volatile.
as trading volume is falling toward the end of the year.the market is becoming more volatile.
In the auto sector, Bayerische Motoren Werke plunged 14.5 marks to 529 marks ($288), Daimler-Benz dropped 10.5 to 700.Volkswagen slumped 9 to 435.5.
Continental gave up some of its recent gains, dropping 8 to 338.rumors of an impending takeover attempt for the tiremaker faded.
Continental gave up some of its recent gains, dropping 8 to 338.rumors of an impending takeover attempt for the tiremaker faded.
with Dresdner Bank shedding 4.8 to 320.Commerzbank slipping 2.5 to.
Tokyo stocks closed easier for the second consecutive day, finishing at the intraday low on index-linked investment trust fund selling toward the end of the afternoon session..Stocks rose in London, but fell again in Frankfurt.Wall Street's volatility unnerved investors in other markets.
Tokyo stocks closed easier for the second consecutive day, finishing at the intraday low on index-linked investment trust fund selling toward the end of the afternoon session..Stocks rose in London, but fell again in Frankfurt.Wall Street's volatility unnerved investors in other markets.
Democrats voted to override by a 3-1 margin.Republicans were equally firm in support of the president, who has threatened to make abortion a decisive issue on at least three separate fiscal 1990 spending bills.
To gain more leverage, abortion-rights advocates may seek to fold the bill into an omnibus continuing resolution next month.the president is in a commanding position for at least this year.
they lose.he changes.
The action came.Congress sent to the president last night a stopgap spending bill to keep the government operating through Nov. 15 and provide $2.85 billion in emergency funds to assist in the recovery from Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake.
By a lopsided 97-1 margin, the Senate approved the measure.attaching further provisions sought by the influential California delegation.
By a lopsided 97-1 margin, the Senate approved the measure after attaching further provisions sought by the influential California delegation.despite reservations, the House adopted the bill on a 303-107 roll call.
The package is more than $1 billion above the recommendations of Budget Director Richard Darman this week.given the political importance of California, the administration was content to use its influence to prevent any Senate amendments adding further new appropriations.
appropriated.Hugo struck the Carolinas and Caribbean last month.
The $2.85 billion measure comes on top of $1.1 billion appropriated after Hugo struck the Carolinas and Caribbean last month.these totals don't reflect the additional benefit of low-interest disaster loans.
In direct cash assistance, $1 billion is provided in federal highway construction funds.$1.35 billion is divided between general emergency aid and a reserve to be available to the president to meet unanticipated costs from the two disasters.
The emergency assistance wouldn't be counted against a state's normal allocation of annual highway funds.the bill circumvents existing restrictions that otherwise would prevent the use of federal aid to repair a toll road, such as the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge damaged in last week's earthquake.
The underlying stopgap bill is the second required by Congress this fall.since the current fiscal year began Oct. 1, only the Energy and Interior departments are operating on permanent appropriations enacted into law.
only the Energy and Interior departments are operating on permanent appropriations enacted into law.the current fiscal year began Oct. 1.
The standoff over abortion is certain to contribute to further delays.apart from the health and education measure vetoed by Mr. Bush, bills funding the District of Columbia and the entire U.S. foreign-aid budget are in jeopardy because of related abortion or family-planning issues.
The vote yesterday was the most partisan in many years.though the Democratic leadership is ambivalent about how to address the abortion issue, the debate is increasingly measured in party terms.
and the debate is increasingly measured in party terms.the Democratic leadership is ambivalent about how to address the abortion issue.
and though the Democratic leadership is ambivalent about how to address the abortion issue.Republicans have held closer to the anti-abortion movement.
At a recent White House meeting, Rep. Silvio Conte (R., Mass.), the ranking minority member of the House Appropriations Committee, argued with his friend Mr. Bush against a veto.though Mr. Conte and Minority Leader Robert Michel of Illinois stood with the president yesterday, they are plainly uncomfortable with his position.
and they are plainly uncomfortable with his position.Mr. Conte and Minority Leader Robert Michel of Illinois stood with the president yesterday.
This isn't a political issue, this is a moral issue.after years of using the issue for its benefit, the GOP finds its candidates on the defensive.
This may not make George Bush a one-term president.if you support him over rape victims, this may be your last term.
But this may be your last term.you support him over rape victims.
as Congress sent to the president last night a stopgap spending bill to keep the government operating through Nov. 15 and provide $2.85 billion in emergency funds to assist in the recovery from Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake.the House last night approved a nearly $67 billion compromise spending bill providing the first construction funds for the administration's ambitious space station in fiscal 1990 and incorporating far-reaching provisions affecting the federal mortgage market.
The current ceiling on home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration would be increased to $124,875.the bill gives the Department of Housing and Urban Development new authority to facilitate the refinancing of subsidized loans for low-income homeowners.
By a 325-92 margin, the Appropriations Committee leadership beat back an early challenge by House Banking Chairman Henry Gonzalez (D., Texas) to the FHA provision.on a closer 250-170 roll call, lawmakers upheld controversial agreements made by a House-Senate conference earmarking community development funds for more than 40 projects backed by often influential members.
The transaction called for Mr. Murdoch's News International PLC, a unit of Australia-based News Corp., to subscribe to a rights issue by Zeta valued at 6.65 billion pesetas ($57 million).participating in the issue was Servifilm Spain Cinematografica S.A.
The New York Stock Exchange is expected to launch its own program trading vehicle today.controversy over this trading strategy heats up.
ESPs will allow institutional investors to buy or sell all 500 stocks in Standard & Poor's index in a single trade of a minimum of $5 million.Customized" baskets of fewer stocks will be available.
The Securities and Exchange Commission gave provisional six-month approval to the Big Board basket at a meeting late yesterday..The SEC at the same time approved a similar but smaller basket product on the Chicago Board Options Exchange.approved was a plan to trade stock portfolios by computer after regular hours on the Midwest Stock Exchange.
who would rapidly turn over the product.increasing volatility.
there have been concerns that the Big Board's basket could attract investors with a "short-term perspective" who would rapidly turn over the product, thus increasing volatility.he didn't believe "this will spawn dramatic new program-trading strategies that will be destabilizing.
The baskets on the Big Board and CBOE will begin trading.critics step up their attacks on program trading and its contributions to the stock market's wild price swings.
that its new product will help rather than hurt the situation by possibly drawing business from more-volatile forms of program trading.ESPs are an attempt by the Big Board to head off the exodus of program trading business to overseas markets such as London.
ESPs are also an attempt by the Big Board to head off the exodus of program trading business to overseas markets such as London.Big Board officials hope Japanese investors will become interested in the exchange's product.
The new stock baskets "are going to make it easier for program trading to be done.it's going to be done more frequently as the result of having more access to it at different places.
Kidder, Peabody & Co., a General Electric Co. unit that has become the biggest program trader along with Morgan Stanley, isn't a market maker.the Big Board hopes that will change.
although the Big Board hopes that will change.the Big Board hopes to entice Merrill Lynch & Co.
major securities firms are reluctant to become market makers.they fear the baskets may attract only limited trading.
that if the new basket had been trading during this month's Friday the 13th market plunge, the Dow Jones Industrial Average might have dropped more than the 190 points it did.its product represents a post-crash "reform.
that the Dow Jones Industrial Average might have dropped more than the 190 points it did.the new basket had been trading during this month's Friday the 13th market plunge.
we would be leaving in caskets.we had the baskets.
First Hospital had advised it that both bank debt and senior notes would be repaid after the acquisition.it isn't assured the acquisition will be completed.
it would be "required to promptly restructure its debt.it isn't completed.
that an agent for the financial institutions providing financing of its acquisition is scheduled to make a final credit determination tomorrow.that a favorable determination could result in a reorganization at Comprehensive Care "by the end of October.
and that a favorable determination could result in a reorganization at Comprehensive Care "by the end of October.Failure to win such a determination would lead Comprehensive Care directors to "consider various alternatives.
In composite trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, Comprehensive Care shares plunged $3.625 to close at $4.75 on volume of 1,177,000 shares.First Hospital reported a 1.6% rise in net income to $6.1 million for its year ended June 30 on a 27% increase in revenue to $110.6 million.
Separately, First Hospital reported a 1.6% rise in net income to $6.1 million for its year ended June 30 on a 27% increase in revenue to $110.6 million.It said that net income for the two-month period ended Aug. 31 plunged to $150,000 from $851,000 in the prior year on a 33% rise in revenue to $21.4 million.
it intends to acquire additional H.H. Robertson shares "with a view towards a possible change in control of the company.It has not made a formal proposal.
it intends to acquire additional H.H. Robertson shares "with a view towards a possible change in control of the company.The group is engaged in talks with third parties regarding obtaining financing to buy more shares.
The group also is engaged in talks with third parties regarding obtaining financing to buy more shares.no agreements have yet been reached.
shareholders who filed civil suits against Ivan F. Boesky and the partnerships he once controlled again are approaching an accord.coming close to a partial settlement a year ago.
After coming close to a partial settlement a year ago, shareholders who filed civil suits against Ivan F. Boesky and the partnerships he once controlled again are approaching an accord.within the next few weeks, the limited partners in Ivan F. Boesky & Co. L.P. are expected to reach a partial settlement with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. regarding the distribution of the $330 million in partnership assets.
Attorneys involved in the talks said that the parties were closer to accord than they were a year ago.less optimistic attorneys warned that because of the tangle of numerous defendants and plaintiffs with overlapping claims, there is always the possibility that the talks will again fall apart.
they suffered losses.they sold while he was buying.
because they sold.he was buying.
Some claim they suffered losses because they sold while he was buying.others because they bought while he was selling.
and others.they bought while he was selling.
because they bought.he was selling.
the partial settlement being negotiated would remove the Boesky partnership, the British fund and Mr. Boesky as defendants.Drexel and other defendants would remain.
the partial settlement being negotiated would remove the Boesky partnership, the British fund and Mr. Boesky as defendants.Drexel and other defendants would remain.
It has been three years.Mr. Boesky, now in prison, agreed to pay a $100 million fine to settle the government's charges that he had traded illegally using insider information.
After coming close to a partial settlement a year ago, shareholders who filed civil suits against Ivan F. Boesky and the partnerships he once controlled again are approaching an accord.attorneys for the 42 or so limited partners have had serious discussions that could lead to the distribution of the partnership's assets.
This is.a Delaware court earlier this year said that Drexel is entitled to get its money back before or at the same time as the limited partners.
Mr. Ferguson fled the U.S. in 1970.exhausting his appeals of a 1968 conviction on conspiracy to murder.
the FBI wasn't required to turn over information on its investigations when Mr. Ferguson appealed his conviction in the 1960s.the federal Freedom of Information Act wasn't law at that time.
the FBI wasn't required to turn over information on its investigations.Mr. Ferguson appealed his conviction in the 1960s.
the FBI wasn't required to turn over information on its investigations when Mr. Ferguson appealed his conviction in the 1960s.the FBI records could show that Mr. Ferguson's arrest was the result of questionable legal practices.
that a delay of over one year will have occurred and plaintiff will have served approximately two-thirds of his 3 1/2-year minimum sentence by the time he receives the files.the FBI's proposed schedule was followed in releasing the documents.
a delay of over one year will have occurred.plaintiff will have served approximately two-thirds of his 3 1/2-year minimum sentence by the time he receives the files.
a delay of over one year will have occurred.plaintiff will have served approximately two-thirds of his 3 1/2-year minimum sentence by the time he receives the files.
Standard cases would require less judicial attention.fast-track cases could be resolved quickly.
that the courts adopt different "tracks" for different types of civil cases in order to separate the handling of highly complex suits from simpler ones.each federal court should set strict time limits for the pretrial exchange of documents and evidence.
each federal court should set strict time limits for the pretrial exchange of documents and evidence, ranging from as much as 100 days for cases in the fast track to as much as 18 months for complex disputes.federal courts should set firm trial dates early in the process.
the makeup of the task force was unusually diverse.some of the study's recommendations resemble those of similar projects.
In the last hour of the trading day, December contract took a tumble to end the session 10 cents lower at $19.62 a barrel.now that the price has fallen below $19.65, which many had said showed considerable resistance, some traders and analysts figure there's little to stop the price from going lower on technical decisions.
And there's little to stop the price from going lower on technical decisions.the price has fallen below $19.65.
And there's little to stop the price from going lower on technical decisions.the price has fallen below $19.65.
With no petroleum-related news or changes in the fundamentals to dictate price moves, "technicians are wanting to sell this stuff.short-term, the technicians may have their way.
That level of production isn't of much concern.demand continues strong.
That level of production isn't of much concern as long as demand continues strong.the first quarter of the year is generally the weakest and OPEC production doesn't seem to be slackening in anticipation of that.
But the first quarter of the year is generally the weakest.OPEC production doesn't seem to be slackening in anticipation of that.
But the first quarter of the year is generally the weakest and OPEC production doesn't seem to be slackening in anticipation of that.maintaining current demand assumes no significant slowdown in world economies.
Soybean and corn futures prices moved higher on the strength of buying from commodity pool managers trying to profit from technical price trends, as well as continued export strength.A leveling off of farmer selling tied to the harvest removed some of the downward pressure on futures contract prices.
Soybean and corn futures prices moved higher on the strength of buying from commodity pool managers trying to profit from technical price trends, as well as continued export strength.Wheat futures prices fell at least partly in reaction to the rumored selling of futures contracts equal to several million bushels of wheat by commodity speculator Richard Dennis.
As for corn and soybean futures, "a lot of commission house buying this morning and computer-driven buying" supported prices in early trading.Announced and anticipated purchases from foreign countries are supporting futures prices.
Russian ships are arriving in the gulf.there isn't enough grain in the pipeline.
Futures prices rose modestly.trading volume wasn't very heavy.
The December contract settled at 73.97 cents a pound, up 0.59 cent.it rose as high as 74.20 cents.
Traders yesterday were buying contracts back at higher prices to limit their losses.who had sold contracts in hopes of buying them back at lower prices.
that the move appeared to be mostly technical.that the market could have been helped by rumors, which have been circulating for the past two days, about China purchasing cotton.
that they should have had a bigger effect on the market.there were Chinese purchases.
that it would be the earliest that country had made purchases since the 1979-80 crop year, and thus would be a bullish sign.China was a buyer.
that it would be the earliest that country had made purchases since the 1979-80 crop year.and would be a bullish sign.
selling it.the price climbs more than 74 cents.
the market would turn aggressively bullish from a technical standpoint.the December contract was able to exceed 75.75 cents.
This trader said that he thought the market would turn aggressively bullish from a technical standpoint if the December contract was able to exceed 75.75 cents.He noted that stocks on Aug. 1, 1990, are currently projected at 3.3 million bales, the smallest end-of-season supply since 1985.
that shipping delays could result.little cocoa actually has arrived at the ports.
that if little cocoa actually has arrived at the ports, shipping delays could result.that without Ivory Coast cocoa a large French cocoa merchant, Cie..Financiere Sucre et Denrees, might not be able to deliver cocoa against the contracts it had sold earlier for December delivery in London.
There was also some fear that without Ivory Coast cocoa a large French cocoa merchant, Cie..Financiere Sucre et Denrees, might not be able to deliver cocoa against the contracts it had sold earlier for December delivery in London.the French merchant has about 200,000 tons of old crop Ivory Coast cocoa stored in the Netherlands from an agreement it had negotiated with the Ivory Coast last spring.
that there is some evidence the contract has been modified.the merchant has a contract stating that it won't bring this cocoa to market until after March 1991.
This modification, apparently, would permit the French merchant to deliver this cocoa against existing short positions.necessary.
He couldn't be reached.a company spokesman wouldn't comment on the dismissal.
Joseph W. Robertson, 61, was dismissed from those posts.Mr. Robertson was removed from the board of First National Bank of New Jersey-Salem County, another unit, and the Toms River bank.
Earlier this month IMA, an investment group that includes Chicago's Pritzker family and First Boston Corp., submitted a reduced bid for American Medical.it couldn't finance its initial offer.
Earlier this month IMA, an investment group that includes Chicago's Pritzker family and First Boston Corp., submitted a reduced bid for American Medical.it couldn't finance its initial offer.
Under the new offer, IMA will pay $26.50 a share for 63 million shares, or about 86% of the shares outstanding.IMA will assume $1.4 billion in debt.
it hasn't received any other offers to acquire the owner and operator of hospitals, and took another step toward completion of its $3 billion acquisition by IMA Holdings Corp.it had been approached again by two other possible suitors.
whom it wouldn't identify.who had previously submitted bids for the company.
it hasn't received any other offers to acquire the owner and operator of hospitals, and took another step toward completion of its $3 billion acquisition by IMA Holdings Corp.Moody's Investors Service Inc. downgraded the ratings of American Medical's senior and subordinated debt issues and those of its international affiliate.
the acquisition should result in pretax losses from operations because of increases in interest expense and charges for depreciation and amortization.that it expects the losses to be reduced through productivity gains and above average growth of the company's hospitals.
it might seek bankruptcy-court protection from creditor lawsuits.it can't renegotiate its borrowings.
Keith A. Tucker was named a director of this insurance and financial services concern.that Samuel E. Upchurch Jr., 37, vice president and general counsel, was selected to serve the remainder of the term vacated by John S.P. Samford.
Beghin-Say S.A. said that it plans to sell its remaining paper operations by the end of January as part of a drive to refocus on the food sector and lower its debt.The French unit of Ferruzzi Agricola Finanziaria disclosed a 40% rise in its consolidated net profit for the first half of 1989, excluding nonrecurring items and after payments to minority interests.
The other part of the transaction will see Beghin-Say sell its 50% stake in its Kaysersberg paper affiliate to an unspecified unit of the petrochemical group Montedison S.p..A., which is also controlled by Ferruzzi.in a separate transaction, Beghin-Say will sell its remaining 25% interest in A.T.B., a holding company for international trading assets, to an unspecified unit of Ferruzzi for 258 million francs.
Esselte AB, the Stockholm office supplies company, as expected, proposed to acquire the 22% it doesn't own of its U.S. unit, Esselte Business Systems Inc.Esselte Business Systems reported third-quarter net income fell 5.9% to $9.5 million, or 46 cents a share, from $10.1 million, or 49 cents a share, in the year-ago period.
the final agreement could be announced as early as tomorrow.conferees are still putting the finishing touches on the package.
the final agreement could be announced as early as tomorrow.An announcement is more likely next week.
The Senate voted to authorize $4.5 billion for SDI spending in the current fiscal year.the House, reflecting a dramatic erosion of support for the program, earmarked only $3.1 billion.
The package "provides a temporary, golden parachute for Grumman," according to one congressional aide familiar with the closed-door bargaining.as part of the overall agreement, Grumman and its outspoken supporters on Capitol Hill effectively will be precluded from reopening the emotional issue in the debate over next year's budget.
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney and most senators contend that the Navy's F-14 is too expensive in an era of shrinking Pentagon budgets.the plane boasts a strong core of support in the House, where members are intent on saving Grumman jobs and are worried about potential shortages of carrier-based aircraft by the late 1990s.
House and Senate conferees agreed to continue production of Grumman Corp. 's F-14 and to provide more than $3.8 billion for the Strategic Defense Initiative during the current fiscal year.Conferees agreed to Pentagon requests to earmark a total of nearly $1 billion for work on both mobile MX and Midgetman nuclear missiles, according to congressional aides.
Conferees also agreed to Pentagon requests to earmark a total of nearly $1 billion for work on both mobile MX and Midgetman nuclear missiles, according to congressional aides.lawmakers are putting the finishing touches on a compromise that would give the Air Force nearly all of the $2.4 billion it wants for production of Northrop Corp. 's radar-eluding B-2 bombers, which cost $530 million apiece.
The final B-2 agreement is certain to require detailed testing and verification of the bomber's capabilities.the accord won't include a House-passed provision that would have withheld production funds until Congress approves a cheaper, scaled-down version of the $70 billion fleet of 132 B-2s envisioned by the Pentagon.
the accord won't include a House-passed provision that would have withheld production funds.Congress approves a cheaper, scaled-down version of the $70 billion fleet of 132 B-2s envisioned by the Pentagon.
a 77% drop in third-quarter net income.Profit suffered because of "intense" discounting in its long-haul trucking business.
Analysts had expected Consolidated to post a slim profit.the company's stock was down only 25 cents to $30.25 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday.
which plunged more than 80 points in early trading Tuesday.and recovered nearly all of its losses by the close.
the upper boundary was set at midday.scattered bargain-hunting pushed prices higher.
The Dow Jones Equity Market Index fell 1.16 to 320.94.the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index slid 0.53 to 189.52.
and the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index slid 0.53 to 189.52.advancing issues topped decliners by 784 to 700 on the Big Board despite the late sell programs.
The programs occurred against the backdrop of a late pullback in UAL.program activity wasn't in evidence through most of the session.
Traders said program activity wasn't in evidence through most of the session, however.Big Board volume dropped to 155,650,000 shares from about 238 million Tuesday as concerns about the potential for additional sharp swings in the market kept other trading in check.
and Big Board volume dropped to 155,650,000 shares from about 238 million Tuesday.concerns about the potential for additional sharp swings in the market kept other trading in check.
and Big Board volume dropped to 155,650,000 shares from about 238 million Tuesday.concerns about the potential for additional sharp swings in the market kept other trading in check.
due to be released.today's opening.
Du Pont, which announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split and raised its quarterly dividend by 14%, jumped 2 1/2 to 117 3/8.The company posted third-quarter earnings that were in line with analysts' forecasts.
Du Pont jumped 2 1/2 to 117 3/8.Blue-chip consumer stocks provided a lift to the industrial average.
American Telephone & Telegraph rose 3/8 to 43 1/2 in Big Board composite trading of 1.5 million shares, Chevron advanced 1 3/4 to 66 5/8 on 2.3 million shares, Woolworth rose 1 to 58 5/8, Coca-Cola Co. gained 5/8 to 72 1/2.Eastman Kodak added 3/8 to 44 1/2.
American Telephone & Telegraph rose 3/8 to 43 1/2 in Big Board composite trading of 1.5 million shares, Chevron advanced 1 3/4 to 66 5/8 on 2.3 million shares, Woolworth rose 1 to 58 5/8, Coca-Cola Co. gained 5/8 to 72 1/2 and Eastman Kodak added 3/8 to 44 1/2.General Motors dropped 1 7/8 to 44 7/8.
Its third-quarter earnings were lower than analysts had forecast.the company said it had lowered its projections for earnings growth through the end of 1990 because of planned price cuts.
The stock fell 3/4 to 12 7/8.3.6 million shares were traded in the wake of its report that fiscal second-quarter net income fell 66% from a year ago.
Chubb rallied 3 3/4 to 86 1/2..Aetna Life & Casualty gained 1 3/8 to 61 1/8, Cigna advanced 7/8 to 64 3/4, Travelers added 1/2 to 40 3/8.American International Group rose 3 1/8 to 107 3/4.
UAL stock declined by 9 to 161.nobody surfaced to claim credit for aggressive buying Tuesday by Bear Stearns that sent UAL stock up 35 points in a matter of hours.
UAL stock declined by 9 to 161.nobody surfaced to claim credit for aggressive buying Tuesday by Bear Stearns that sent UAL stock up 35 points in a matter of hours.
AMR, which owns American Airlines, rose 3 3/8 to 72 1/4; USAir Group fell 1 1/2 to 38 5/8.Delta Air Lines rose 1/2 to 66 1/2 after posting higher earnings for the September quarter.
and Delta Air Lines rose 1/2 to 66 1/2.posting higher earnings for the September quarter.
Procter & Gamble went down 3 1/2 to 130, Dow Jones fell 3 1/2 to 37 1/2.Rockwell International dropped 2 1/8 to 25.
Procter & Gamble went down 3 1/2 to 130, Dow Jones fell 3 1/2 to 37 1/2 and Rockwell International dropped 2 1/8 to 25.Atlantic Richfield preserved its twopoint advance in the previous session and added 1/8 to 103 7/8.
Di Giorgio gained 1 to 30 3/4.the company said it is starting negotiations with unidentified parties interested in acquiring its units.
Di Giorgio gained 1 to 30 3/4.the company said it is starting negotiations with unidentified parties interested in acquiring its units.
Newell, which declared a 2-for-1 stock split and boosted its quarterly dividend by 14%, added 7/8 to 49 3/8.the company posted improved third-quarter earnings.
Its capital spending is growing at double-digit rates for the second year in a row.its superefficient producers of everything from cars to computer chips are rushing to expand capacity, modernize factories and develop new products.
the more they will be able to export.the less their domestic customers will need to import.
The more factories and robots Japanese manufacturers add, the more they will be able to export, and the less their domestic customers will need to import.At Canon Inc. sales are up nearly 20% this year; so, the maker of cameras and computer printers is doing what any Japanese company would do under the circumstances: It is increasing capital spending -- by 60%..It is building, among other things, a new laser-beam-printer factory in western Japan that can produce up to 150,000 printers next year.
At Canon Inc., for example, sales are up nearly 20% this year.the maker of cameras and computer printers is doing what any Japanese company would do under the circumstances: It is increasing capital spending -- by 60%.
that Japanese companies' outlays in Japan topped American companies' domestic outlays by $521.4 billion to $494.8 billion in the 12 months ended March 31.Japan's total output of goods and services is less than two-thirds America's.
Many Japanese companies expect record profits this fiscal year.Japanese interest rates, though up a bit recently, are still low.
Many Japanese companies expect record profits this fiscal year, and Japanese interest rates, though up a bit recently, are still low.in a business system where shareholders have few rights and expect only modest dividends, companies can plow their profits back into plant and equipment.
From a financial standpoint, the boom couldn't come at a better time.some economists and government officials here aren't applauding.
MITI officials hope to avoid yet-another source of trade friction with the U.S.export restraints currently limit Japanese car exports to the U.S.
But some economists and government officials here aren't applauding..They fear that the boom may be too big for Japan's or anyone else's good.Not everyone is worried.
The investment boom is mainly sparked by strong domestic demand and isn't likely to increase exports sharply.much investment isn't aimed at increasing capacity.
14.2% of their spending is designed to improve products or add new ones, 17.5% is to cut costs, 12.5% is for research and development.the rest is for maintenance and other purposes.
Some economists -- and many Japanese companies -- are puzzled by the warnings.the worriers remain unconvinced.
With Japan running enormous trade surpluses against much of the world that Japan should meet the increased domestic demand by importing more.eventually domestic demand will weaken, forcing companies to emphasize exports again.
that'll be a problem.there's a further drive to export.
Even in the short run, the investment boom could exacerbate a disturbing trend.Japanese auto makers are increasing their production capacity in the U.S.
Japanese auto makers, for example, are increasing their production capacity in the U.S.; the additional production should, in part, replace imported vehicles with locally manufactured ones.although Japanese companies increased their U.S. auto output by 42% from January to September compared with the year-earlier period, their exports to the U.S. will drop only 9% this year.
But their exports to the U.S. will drop only 9% this year.Japanese companies increased their U.S. auto output by 42% from January to September compared with the year-earlier period.
Others are replacing older facilities with flexible assembly lines on which different models can be turned out at once.that Fanuc Ltd., a robot maker had to build a new plant.
The buildup is "making Japan clearly more efficient, more technologically advanced and more competitive.whatever its effects on exports and imports, Japan's investment boom during the past two years has been stimulated at least partly by soaring domestic demand.
Japan's marathon economy, growing at 4.3% this year, is now in its 35th month of expansion.some economists are betting that the boom will outlast the record 57-month expansion in the late 1960s.
Nissan Motor Co. 's domestic auto sales are up 20% this year.its expensive Cima, Sylvia and Cefiro models are in heavy demand.
that he'd sell them right away.he had more cars.
that the company is trying to keep up with demand "by overworking" its employees.Honda Motor Co. 's sales are so brisk that workers grumble they haven't had a Saturday off in years, despite the government's encouragement of more leisure activity.
that the company is trying to keep up with demand "by overworking" its employees.Honda Motor Co. 's sales are so brisk that workers grumble they haven't had a Saturday off in years, despite the government's encouragement of more leisure activity.
the whole industry follows.one Japanese company steps up its investments.
to let a competitor's addition to capacity go unmatched is to concede defeat.most businesses put market share above profitability.
The expansion is aimed not just at meeting demand.but at expanding the company's market share to 30% from 27% currently.
The expansion is aimed not just at meeting demand but also at expanding the company's market share to 30% from 27% currently.Daikin's major competitors, Hitachi Ltd. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd., "are all adding production lines.
Until now, we were trying to increase productivity with the facilities we already had.we can't produce enough anymore.
Nissan aims to expand its 25% share of the market to 30% by spending $141 million on a plant in southern Japan that could make as many as 240,000 cars a year.Toyota Motor Corp. 's $247 million buildup is increasing its annual capacity by 180,000 cars, and Honda is spending $317 million on expansion.
Nissan aims to expand its 25% share of the market to 30% by spending $141 million on a plant in southern Japan that could make as many as 240,000 cars a year.Toyota Motor Corp. 's $247 million buildup is increasing its annual capacity by 180,000 cars, and Honda is spending $317 million on expansion.
Meanwhile, Toyota Motor Corp. 's $247 million buildup is increasing its annual capacity by 180,000 cars.Honda is spending $317 million on expansion.
Mazda Motor Corp. is still considering its options.it boldly aims to double its annual domestic sales to 800,000 cars in the next four years.
Asahi Breweries Ltd. plans to fend off Japanese competitors by pouring $1.06 billion into facilities to brew 50% more beer.imports account for less than 1% of beer sales in Japan.
that many new products aren't replacements for imports.new-product development will make Japanese companies stronger, and big investments in "domestic" industries such as beer will make it even tougher for foreign competitors to crack the Japanese market.
But new-product development will make Japanese companies stronger.big investments in "domestic" industries such as beer will make it even tougher for foreign competitors to crack the Japanese market.
and big investments in "domestic" industries such as beer will make it even tougher for foreign competitors to crack the Japanese market.much of the investment boom is in high-tech fields in which Japanese companies have only limited foreign competition; so, more investment practically assures more exports.
Moreover, much of the investment boom is in high-tech fields in which Japanese companies have only limited foreign competition.more investment practically assures more exports.
Moreover, much of the investment boom is in high-tech fields in which Japanese companies have only limited foreign competition; so, more investment practically assures more exports.Toshiba Corp. is spending $986 million on two new plants to build four-megabit dynamic random access memories, the next generation of computer chips.
The product isn't widely used yet.that its early investment will heighten its chances of beating its competitors again.
Toshiba Corp., for example, is spending $986 million on two new plants to build four-megabit dynamic random access memories, the next generation of computer chips.Toshiba's Japanese rivals, Hitachi, Fujitsu Ltd. and NEC Corp., aren't sitting still.
Toshiba Corp., for example, is spending $986 million on two new plants to build four-megabit dynamic random access memories, the next generation of computer chips.Toshiba's Japanese rivals, Hitachi, Fujitsu Ltd. and NEC Corp., aren't sitting still.
to raise Lexus exports.a new plant starts up next year.
not everyone will suffer.excess capacity develops.
The losers will be those with the least attractive products.many of them will be foreign companies.
Details of the restructuring won't be made final.regulators approve the regulations mandated by the new federal act.
ONEIDA Ltd. declared a 10% stock dividend, payable Dec. 15 to stock of record Nov. 17.The Oneida, N.Y., maker of consumer, food-service and industrial products declared a quarterly cash dividend of 12 cents a share, with the same payable and record dates.
a quarterly cash dividend of 12 cents a share, with the same payable and record dates.The cash dividend paid on the common stock will apply to the new shares.
Adults with AIDS have had access to AZT.FDA approved the drug's usage for adults in March 1987.
Adults with AIDS have had access to AZT since FDA approved the drug's usage for adults in March 1987.despite more than two years of research showing AZT can relieve dementia and other symptoms in children, the drug still lacks federal approval for use in the youngest patients.
But despite more than two years of research showing AZT can relieve dementia and other symptoms in children, the drug still lacks federal approval for use in the youngest patients.many youngsters have been unable to obtain the drug and, for the few exceptions, insurance carriers won't cover its cost of $6,400 a year.
As a result, many youngsters have been unable to obtain the drug.for the few exceptions, insurance carriers won't cover its cost of $6,400 a year.
One of them, a daughter Ariel, died a year ago at age seven.her parents unsuccessfully pleaded for the drug.
I could get AZT.my daughter couldn't.
But my daughter couldn't.she was too ill to take it.
Secondly, critics have charged AZT's maker Burroughs Wellcome Co. with corporate inertia.children account for just 1% of the patient population and hence a small part of the large and lucrative market.
that it is moving ahead to compile the relevant data to develop a pediatric syrup form easier for youngsters to take.all this comes nearly a year and a half after Philip Pizzo of the National Cancer Institute offered evidence that AZT could reverse the ravages of AIDS dementia, sometimes prompting dramatic recovery of IQ levels and reappearance of lost motor skills.
Still, all this comes.Philip Pizzo of the National Cancer Institute offered evidence that AZT could reverse the ravages of AIDS dementia, sometimes prompting dramatic recovery of IQ levels and reappearance of lost motor skills.
it's taken much too long to get to this point.I'm pleased the FDA is finally releasing AZT for children.
giving back a piece of their childhood.only temporarily.
it declared a dividend of one warrant for each three shares of common stock.it will issue an additional 243,677 of the Class C warrants to holders of its Class A, Class B and unclassified warrants.
Bethlehem Steel's profit plunged 54% in the third quarter, hurt by higher costs and lower shipments to key clients.Armco and National Intergroup had lower operating profit in steel.
Columbia S&L posted a quarterly loss of $226.3 million.the Beverly Hills thrift reeled from new industry rules and turmoil in junk bonds.
setting the stage for a price war.the beer industry's growth slows.
the central bank can wipe out inflation without causing a recession.doing so will inflict short-term pain.
net fell 3.1%.EDS's profit rose 16%.
Provigo plans to sell all non-food operations to refocus on its retail and wholesale grocery business.Chairman Pierre Lortie resigned.
Michigan's Senate passed a bill requiring girls to get parental consent for an abortion.Pennsylvania's House cleared a measure banning abortions after the 24th week of pregnancy.
The action came.the Senate approved the House-passed measure.
In the San Francisco Bay area, more than 13,000 people were homeless.landslides threatened more houses.
East German leader Krenz said he was willing to hold talks with opposition groups pressing for internal changes.The Communist Party chief said he would allow East Germans to travel abroad more freely, but made clear that the Berlin Wall would remain.
Baker offered to review Israel's "suggested changes" to his proposal for direct Israeli-Palestinian talks.the secretary of state advised Israel that attempting to overhaul the five-point plan risked delaying the negotiations aimed at Mideast peace.
Bush said Washington would continue a trade embargo against Nicaragua, declaring that the Central American country poses "an unusual and extraordinary threat" to the security of the U.S.Secretary of State Baker said the U.S. protested to Moscow over shipments of East bloc arms to Salvadoran rebels from Managua.
Bush said Washington would continue a trade embargo against Nicaragua, declaring that the Central American country poses "an unusual and extraordinary threat" to the security of the U.S.Secretary of State Baker said the U.S. protested to Moscow over shipments of East bloc arms to Salvadoran rebels from Managua.
A landslide engulfed a hillside slum in Sao Paulo, Brazil.at least 20 people, most of them children, were missing and feared dead.
A landslide engulfed a hillside slum in Sao Paulo, Brazil.at least 20 people, most of them children, were missing and feared dead.
Jeffrey Coors, 44 years old, had been president since 1985, when he succeeded his father Joseph in the job.Jeffrey Coors voluntarily gave up the position to focus more of his energy on Coors Technology Co., a small unit of Coors he has run for several years.
A spokeswoman said Toronto-based Campeau has received "expressions of interest" in Bloomingdale's.she declined to comment on whether any actual bids had been made.
that Tokyu Department Store is one of several Japanese companies that has been approached by representatives of a management committee headed by Bloomingdale's Mr. Traub.detailed financial figures haven't been passed yet to any prospective buyers.
Tokyu is one of the potential buyers who might raise its hand.it's in very early stages still.
to arrange $800 million in bridge financing for Campeau.O&Y is supervising major restructuring and refinancing of Campeau, a Toronto-based real estate and retailing company.
No book has been issued regarding Bloomingdale's, there are no projections.I doubt very much whether any bid has been made.
that a Japanese department store concern is planning to offer about $1.3 billion to buy Bloomingdale's.a Campeau shareholder filed suit, charging Campeau, Chairman Robert Campeau and other officers with violating securities law.
McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. must extend its offer for LIN Broadcasting Corp.it has "not yet announced committed financing sufficient to complete" the bid.
McCaw wants to buy 22 million shares of LIN for $125 each, or $2.75 billion.The offer is in limbo.
The offer is in limbo, however.LIN has agreed to merge its cellular-phone businesses with BellSouth Corp.
calling it "vague and ill-defined.it didn't describe the source of funds or the specific terms of StatesWest securities which were part of the offer.
saying that in addition to $7 a share in cash, StatesWest would offer one share of new 6% convertible preferred stock of StatesWest it values at $3 a share.It said the cash portion of the transaction would be financed with StatesWest's own cash and short-term investments, plus debt and other financing arranged through Hibbard Brown & Co., the company's investment banker.
margins improved.its inventory position this year didn't need the costly markdowns required to trim last year's swollen levels.
the apparel market troughed in the first half of 1988.began showing improvement in the second half of last year.
margins improved because its inventory position this year didn't need the costly markdowns required to trim last year's swollen levels.ongoing cost-cutting efforts contributed to the latest period's earnings upturn.
Coniston Partners, which with related entities controls 80% of TW, had been planning to sell $1.15 billion of junk bonds, among other things to finance their acquisition of the remaining public shares.Coniston, a New York partnership managed by the firm of Gollust, Tierney & Oliver, yesterday announced that "in view of unsettled conditions in securities markets" the offering would be postponed and restructured.
that Coniston and its investment banker, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, just completed a two-week "road show" for the purpose of marketing the bonds.investors, at least for now, took a pass.
TW's junk bonds weren't, as junk bonds go, unusually weak..Its fast-food restaurants -- including Denny's, Hardee's, Quincy's and El Pollo Loco ("the only significant fast-food chain to specialize in char-broiled chicken") -- are stable, recession-resistant and growing.unless they continued to grow, TW, based in Paramus, N.J., would have run into trouble.
But TW, based in Paramus, N.J., would have run into trouble.they continued to grow.
Until recently, such buy-now, pray-for-growth-later deals were routine.people don't buy anything on expectation anymore.
TW's stockholder meeting was postponed from tomorrow to Nov. 21.DLJ hopes to be able to sell less-junky junk bonds.
TW's stockholder meeting was postponed from tomorrow to Nov. 21.DLJ hopes to be able to sell less-junky junk bonds.
Gollust, Tierney & Oliver is likely to contribute more than the $120 million in equity it had planned on..Banks may contribute more senior debt.the total amount of junk financing will be reduced.
that "very few people said they didn't like the credit quality..People said they didn't think a billion-dollar deal would trade.trading risk stems from credit risk.
But trading risk stems from credit risk.by adding equity, DLJ would seem to be acknowledging that credit risk was a concern.
And by adding equity, DLJ would seem to be acknowledging that credit risk was a concern.the DLJ banker says, in the reborn capital structure cash coverage of interest "will meaningfully improve.
that pretax earnings "would have been insufficient to cover its fixed charges, including interest on debt securities," by approximately $62.7 million in the first six months of 1989.the acquisition had been completed earlier.
that "adjusted to eliminate non-cash charges" TW would have run a cash surplus -- in this case, of $56 million over six months.such calculations ignore the noncash charge of depreciation.
But such calculations ignore the noncash charge of depreciation.the company envisions capital expenses of about $180 million a year.
that sales and earnings at its restaurants have risen steadily.that people won't stop eating during a downturn.
and that people won't stop eating during a downturn.they won't necessarily eat at Denny's.
that TW historically has prospered.it has been willing to spend aggressively on remodeling restaurants and redoing menus.
to generate enough cash for capital spending.and to pay down debt.
that TW could cut capital spending.necessary.
that TW could, if necessary, cut capital spending.half of what it plans to spend is for "growth," rather than maintenance.
that TW could, if necessary, cut capital spending, since half of what it plans to spend is for "growth," rather than maintenance.that under the shelved offering, TW would have needed to grow to meet its debt payments.
who was practicing the read-my-lips school of politics.Mr. Bush encountered it.
to behave in a civilised -- that is unflaky -- fashion.abroad.
her statement urged it to "encourage change" rather than inflict further punishment on the country's black population.supporting the Commonwealth "in utterly condemning apartheid.
Actually there is a consensus somewhere on sanctions: In May a Gallup Poll found that most South African blacks, 85%, oppose economic sanctions.Mrs. Thatcher had once again gone against the grain.
you are out of step.everybody else puts out their left foot and you put out your right foot.
If everybody else puts out their left foot.you put out your right foot.
I'm very sorry for the 48.it's one against 48.
it is Britain's mysteriously intractable inflation problem.indeed Mrs. Thatcher has one opponent that could throw her off political course.
If it's one against 48, I'm very sorry for the 48.If Mrs. Thatcher has one opponent that could throw her off political course it is Britain's mysteriously intractable inflation problem.
her political enemies are screaming louder than ever.We cannot join the political chorus that as one proclaims how offputting it is that Mrs. Thatcher refuses to get along by going along.
The guest paid his bill at the resort hotel.as he departed he noticed a sign saying, "Have You Left Anything.
and he noticed a sign saying, "Have You Left Anything.he departed.
the Nasdaq over-the-counter market dusted itself off and moved on in moderate trading.being trampled in Tuesday's selling stampede.
After being trampled in Tuesday's selling stampede, the Nasdaq over-the-counter market dusted itself off and moved on in moderate trading.while the Composite gained 1.19, to 462.89, many issues didn't participate in the advance.
But many issues didn't participate in the advance.the Composite gained 1.19, to 462.89.
Of the 4,348 issues that changed hands, 1,074 advanced.866 declined.
The Nasdaq Financial Index rose 2.09, to 454.86.the Nasdaq 100 Index of the big non-financial stocks basically stood still, easing 0.12, to 452.23.
The Nasdaq Financial Index rose 2.09, to 454.86.the Nasdaq 100 Index of the big non-financial stocks basically stood still, easing 0.12, to 452.23.
The market acted better.it wasn't a tremendous comeback.
maybe the buyers will come back.we get a decent rally {today}.
a seatbelt may come in handy during the next few sessions.E.E. "Buzzy" Geduld is right.
There's a lot of uncertainty out there.it will cause a lot of swings.
Almost one million shares of Sun Microsystems changed hands.the issue was unchanged at 17 3/4.
Amgen advanced 1 1/2 to 56; Chiron jumped 2 to 29 3/4; Cetus gained 1 to 16 7/8.Biogen rose 5/8 to 14 5/8.
to make a bid for all of the shares outstanding of Jaguar.British government restrictions to such a transaction are removed.
Another takeover target, LIN Broadcasting, rose 1/2 to 109 1/4 on 495,000 shares.Its suitor, McCaw Cellular added 1/2 to 40 1/2 on 395,700 shares.
Occupational-Urgent Care Health fell 1 3/4 to 15 1/2 on 354,000 shares.The company's third-quarter earnings rose to 10 cents a share from eight cents a share a year ago.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
At that price, CBS was the only player at the table.negotiations with the International Olympic Committee started in Toronto Aug. 23.
Dick Pound, a committee member, began by disclosing that ABC and NBC had refused to even bid.he asked Mr. Pilson to raise his offer anyway.
you can have a dea.we can have a number that starts with a three.
Well, CBS, mired in the ratings cellar and looking to sports as a way out, wanted to close the deal immediately and block its rivals from getting another chance to bid.Mr. Pilson has been put in the uncomfortable role of setting off a bidding frenzy for sports rights, a frenzy that the networks had hoped to avoid.
CBS itself could run up losses of a few hundred million dollars on four years of various sports.its big gamble goes wrong.
CBS itself could run up losses of a few hundred million dollars on four years of various sports if its big gamble goes wrong.ABC, a unit of Capital Cities/ABC Inc., and General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. risk losses if they outbid CBS for other contracts.
ABC, a unit of Capital Cities/ABC Inc., and General Electric Co. 's National Broadcasting Co. also risk losses.they outbid CBS for other contracts.
ad rates won't.rights fees head skyward.
ad rates won't.rights fees head skyward.
they're likely to lose all but a few who need sports, above all.they ask advertisers to absorb the costs.
that might stick around to watch other CBS programs.the game is over.
that they won't offset the multimillion-dollar deficits that CBS could run up.they do.
those deals can turn sour.the numbers don't work.
As we've seen in the '80s, those deals can turn sour if the numbers don't work.three years later, in a sea of red ink, the heroes can find themselves with a lot of explaining to do.
As we've seen in the '80s, those deals can turn sour if the numbers don't work.three years later, in a sea of red ink, the heroes can find themselves with a lot of explaining to do.
who was ousted as chairman of CBS Inc.Laurence A. Tisch bought a 24.9% stake in the company and took over three years ago.
They lost the entertainment crown.they needed one.
They lost the entertainment crown, and they needed one.they've bought one.
They lost the entertainment crown, and they needed one.they've bought one.
NBC may "come in with a huge bid for college basketball to take it away from CBS and say, 'We can overbid, too.the winners will be the colleges, not either network.
NBC may "come in with a huge bid for college basketball to take it away from CBS and say, 'We can overbid, too.the winners will be the colleges, not either network.
In the mid-1980s he sniped at rivals for paying reckless prices.ABC had just bid a record $309 million for the 1988 Winter Games.
I love Pilson.he was the guy who complained most bitterly and loudly.
but he was the guy who complained most bitterly and loudly.yet his company is one reason why rights are so high today.
but he was the guy who complained most bitterly and loudly.And his company is one reason why rights are so high today.
he's always expounding that rights are too high.he's going crazy.
then he's going crazy.the 49-year-old Mr. Pilson is hardly a man to ignore the numbers.
A Yale law school graduate, he began his career in corporate law.and put in years at Metromedia Inc. and the William Morris talent agency.
that I didn't say forever, and I didn't say every property.he spoke out a few years ago.
I didn't say forever.I didn't say every property.
that I didn't say forever, and I didn't say every property." The market changed.he isn't the only big spender.
NBC will pay a record $401 million for the 1992 Summer Games.ESPN will shell out $400 million for four years of baseball.
Mr. Pilson's "Major Events" strategy jelled.Mr. Tisch took over.
that in April 1986, after CBS's annual meeting in Philadelphia, he and Mr. Tisch took the 90-minute train ride back to New York.Mr. Pilson used this extended private audience to outline his ambitions.
Five months later, Mr. Tisch took over as CBS's chief executive.soon he was wielding sole approval each time Mr. Pilson scribbled a frighteningly large figure on a slip of paper, sealed it in an envelope and gave it to sports negotiators.
Five months later, Mr. Tisch took over as CBS's chief executive.soon he was wielding sole approval each time Mr. Pilson scribbled a frighteningly large figure on a slip of paper, sealed it in an envelope and gave it to sports negotiators.
Five months later, Mr. Tisch took over as CBS's chief executive.in May 1988, Mr. Tisch urgently needed to make a bold statement to quell rumors that he might sell the network.
The "Major Events" strategy is designed to notch a place for CBS on the crowded TV dial of the 1990s.It's a fast fix for an ailing image.
I'd rather see the games on our air than on NBC and ABC.baseball triggers losses at CBS.
Even if baseball triggers losses at CBS.he doesn't think it will.
Regular TV series ratings have slumped in the past five years.premiering new shows is "a crap shoot.
Regular TV series ratings have slumped in the past five years, and premiering new shows is "a crap shoot.top sports events are still a strong bet to lure audiences 30% or 40% larger than those CBS usually gets.
baseball and the Olympics may help CBS move up to No. 2 in the household ratings race, putting pizazz back into the network's image.the Winter Olympics will air during the February "sweeps," when ratings are used to set ad rates for local stations.
But top sports events are still a strong bet to lure audiences 30% or 40% larger than those CBS usually gets.The CBS plan to use big-time sports as a platform for other series carries no guarantee of success.
No amount of hype will bring viewers back.the shows are weak.
they're gone.the show ain't a killer.
If the show ain't a killer, they're gone.During the 1984 Summer Games ABC touted "Call to Glory," but the military drama was missing in action within weeks.
During the 1984 Summer Games, for example, ABC touted "Call to Glory.the military drama was missing in action within weeks.
The CBS plan to use big-time sports as a platform for other series carries no guarantee of success, however.sports is hardly the best way to lure adult women.
most advertisers buy based on ratings for women aged 18 to 49.CBS might move up to No. 2 in household ratings.
No amount of hype will bring viewers back if the shows are weak Moreover, sports is hardly the best way to lure adult women.is CBS a shoo-in to get blockbuster ratings.
In recent years, the World Series and the Olympics were aired against CBS's last-place lineup.CBS will put the athletes up against Bill Cosby, "Cheers" and other shows in NBC's No. 1 schedule.
The intangible benefits may prove extremely costly.CBS can't avoid big losses on the sports coverage itself.
The intangible benefits may prove extremely costly if CBS can't avoid big losses on the sports coverage itself.avoiding such losses will take a monumental effort.
On the $1.06 billion baseball agreement alone, CBS is likely to lose $250 million in four years.the deal "plain smart" for its huge promotional value.
Mr. Pilson calls that loss estimate "wildly inaccurate," conceding only that CBS will lose money on baseball in the first year. "It's too early to tell" what happens after that, he says.Mr. Tisch expects losses in all four years of the contract.
CBS will pay an average of $82 million more each year than ABC and NBC had paid together.those two networks expect losses on baseball this season.
CBS will pay an average of $82 million more each year than ABC and NBC had paid together.CBS will air only 12 regular-season games, 26 fewer than ABC and NBC.
That has outraged some fans.It indicates a $50 million drop in ad sales for regular-season games -- a risk CBS took to get an unprecedented lock on all playoff games.
losses could soar.the playoffs end in four-game sweeps.
CBS signed General Motors and Toyota to be the only auto-maker sponsors in baseball for four years..Price: $265 million.that works out to only $275,000 for a 30-second ad in the World Series through 1993 -- 17% less than what ABC is charging for the Series this month.
that works out to only $275,000 for a 30-second ad in the World Series through 1993 -- 17% less than what ABC is charging for the Series this month.there's no question ad rates will come down considerably" from the GM-Toyota price.
Moreover, "there's no question ad rates will come down considerably" from the GM-Toyota price, says Arnold Chase of Bozell Inc.Other admen say rates could rise later if ad spending surges.
ad rates will come down considerably" from the GM-Toyota price.rates could rise if ad spending surges.
rates could rise later.ad spending surges.
On the $1.06 billion baseball agreement alone, CBS is likely to lose $250 million in four years, contends Mr. Wussler, the former CBS man, now at Comsat Inc. Nevertheless, he deems the deal "plain smart" for its huge promotional value..Mr. Pilson calls that loss estimate "wildly inaccurate," conceding only that CBS will lose money on baseball in the first year. "It's too early to tell" what happens after that, he says..But Mr. Tisch expects losses in all four years of the contract, he told U.S. senators last June..CBS will pay an average of $82 million more each year than ABC and NBC had paid together -- and those two networks expect losses on baseball this season..Yet CBS will air only 12 regular-season games, 26 fewer than ABC and NBC..That has outraged some fans..It also indicates a $50 million drop in ad sales for regular-season games -- a risk CBS took to get an unprecedented lock on all playoff games..If the playoffs end in four-game sweeps, losses could soar..Advertisers are resisting higher prices, which would help close the gap..CBS signed General Motors and Toyota to be the only auto-maker sponsors in baseball for four years..Price: $265 million..But ad executives who negotiated the deal say that works out to only $275,000 for a 30-second ad in the World Series through 1993 -- 17% less than what ABC is charging for the Series this month..Moreover, "there's no question ad rates will come down considerably" from the GM-Toyota price, says Arnold Chase of Bozell Inc. Other admen, however, say rates could rise later if ad spending surges.The Winter Games outlook is mixed.
CBS expects to make modest profits.rivals contend that it will take a beating.
CBS will add 25 1/2 hours to that load in 1992.ratings could be hurt by a lack of live events.
All prime-time fare will be on tape-delay because of time differences with Norway.the results can be announced on the 6 o'clock news.
that it matters little.CBS loses, say, $10 million.
Ten million ain't jack, man.you got $3 billion sitting in the bank.
that even if CBS loses, say, $10 million, it matters little.sports has "claimed its place" as a guaranteed ratings-getter.
CBS Sports earned $50 million or so last year.CBS takes in the least money in prime time.
And CBS takes in the least money in prime time; ABC and NBC charge 30% to 35% more for ads, according to a Variety survey.CBS's costs are huge, and the risks go up with each new sports package that CBS locks up.
But CBS's costs are huge.the risks go up with each new sports package that CBS locks up.
ad rates may rise only 20%.sports officials predict jumps of 50% to 100% in the major contracts coming up for renewal.
by ordering fewer episodes of regular series.sports will fill up a few weeks of prime time.
CBS hopes to save money by ordering fewer episodes of regular series because sports will fill up a few weeks of prime time.the savings will be minuscule.
an hour-long drama costs only $900,000.it is aired twice.
CBS may cushion losses with about $200 million a year in interest earned on the proceeds from selling CBS Records and other businesses.Wall Street won't take kindly to that.
he doesn't exactly say yes.Mr. Pilson is asked directly -- can you make money on all this.
What you're really asking is, Are the profit and loss margins anticipated on the events acceptable to management?" he says.he answers his own question.
Place a phone order through most any catalog.chances are the clerk who answers won't be the only one on the line.
Place a phone order through most any catalog and chances are the clerk who answers won't be the only one on the line.open up an electronics magazine and peruse the ads for sneaky tape recorders and other snooping gadgets.
Or open up an electronics magazine.peruse the ads for sneaky tape recorders and other snooping gadgets.
Eavesdropping -- both corporate and private -- is on the rise, thanks to the proliferation of surveillance technologies.while sellers of the equipment and companies "monitoring" employees have few qualms, right-to-privacy advocates and some lawmakers are alarmed.
And right-to-privacy advocates and some lawmakers are alarmed.sellers of the equipment and companies "monitoring" employees have few qualms.
The practice is common at catalog, insurance and phone companies, banks and telemarketers, according to trade groups and worker organizations.It's widespread for reservations clerks in the airline, car-rental, hotel and railroad industries.
that employees know they are being recorded.that customer conversations aren't taped.
Eavesdropping by individuals is harder to measure.devices are there for the asking, whether in stores or through the mail.
But devices are there for the asking, whether in stores or through the mail.The Counter Spy Shop in Washington, D.C. offers the "Secret Connection" attache case, which can surreptitiously record conversations for nine hours at a stretch.
That and other fancy gizmos may cost thousands.simple voice-activated tape recorders sell for as little as $70 at electronics stores like Radio Shack.
they can mean leverage in a settlement.tape recordings to uncover, say, infidelity aren't admissible in court.
Nine states have introduced bills requiring that workers and customers be made aware of monitoring.four states -- California, Florida, Michigan and Pennsylvania -- have adopted rules that all parties involved must consent when phone calls are recorded.
that all parties involved must consent.phone calls are recorded.
In May, Rep. Don Edwards (D..Calif.) introduced congressional legislation that would require an audible beeping during any employee monitoring, warning people that they are being heard.last spring, Rep. Ron Dellums (D., Calif.), introduced a bill requiring universal two-party consent to any tapings in cases that don't involve law enforcement.
a bill requiring universal two-party consent to any tapings in cases that don't involve law enforcement.products such as voice-activated tape recorders would have to include beep tones and labels explaining federal laws on eavesdropping.
The ACLU and worker organizations back tighter laws.employers and device manufacturers object.
I'm sympathetic with workers who feel under the gun.the only way you can find out how your people are doing is by listening.
which is lobbying strenuously against the Edwards beeper bill.Spiegel opposes the beeper bill.
Federal wiretap statutes recognize the right of employers to monitor employees' for evaluation purposes.in the past, Congress has viewed monitoring as an issue best handled in union negotiations.
And in the past, Congress has viewed monitoring as an issue best handled in union negotiations.opponents, led by the CWA, say new laws are needed because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries and 81% of monitored workers aren't represented by unions.
new laws are needed.monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries and 81% of monitored workers aren't represented by unions.
because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries.81% of monitored workers aren't represented by unions.
Laura Dale, center manager at the catalog company's customer order center in Reno, Nev., defends monitoring. "We like to follow up and make sure operators are achieving our standards of company service," says Ms. Dale, who supervises 350 operators..John Bonomo, a Nynex spokesman, says the telephone company needs to monitor operators to evaluate performance during the first six months on the job. "Sometimes," he says, "we'll pull someone off the phones for more training.".Federal wiretap statutes recognize the right of employers to monitor employees' for evaluation purposes..And in the past, Congress has viewed monitoring as an issue best handled in union negotiations..But opponents, led by the CWA, say new laws are needed because monitoring is heavily concentrated in service industries and 81% of monitored workers aren't represented by unions..The CWA claims that monitoring not only infringes on employee privacy, but increases stress.."Nine to Five," a Cleveland-based office workers organization that supports the beeper bill, six months ago started a privacy hot line to receive reports of alleged monitoring abuses.supporters of the Dellums two-party consent bill say it is needed because of a giant loophole in the one-party consent law.
Currently it's all right to record without the knowledge of the other person on the line.the person taping is a party to the conversation.
Some marketers of surveillance gear -- including Communication Control System Ltd., which owns the Counter Spy Shop and others like it -- already put warning labels in their catalogs informing customers of the one-party law.that they can't control how their products are used.
against selling products.a salesperson suspects they will be used illegally.
he hasn't yet studied the Dellums bill.that requiring a beeping tone on recorders "would be ludicrous.
Radio Shack says it has a policy against selling products if a salesperson suspects they will be used illegally.Radio Shack is aware that some of its products are controversial.
With its ability to pick up rustlings and flapping wings, "it was meant to be a toy for children for bird watching.we were getting too many complaints that people were using them to eavesdrop on their neighbors.
The hottest rivalry in the computer industry intensified sharply yesterday.Digital Equipment Corp. announced its first line of mainframe computers.
The hottest rivalry in the computer industry intensified sharply yesterday.Digital Equipment Corp. announced its first line of mainframe computers.
Up to now, the intense competition between IBM and Digital has been confined largely to the broad midrange of the computer market, where Digital sought to exploit IBM's weaknesses in networking.Digital's move into mainframes will target IBM's home turf, where it has a commanding 70% share of the market.
IBM fired back with new mainframes of its own, extending the long-dominant 3090 line with a 7% to 14% power boost.IBM announced upgraded operating system software that, together with the new hardware, lets customers do so-called batch processing as much as 60% faster.
the 16 new J and JH models will generally be available immediately.three won't ship until the third quarter of next year.
Small models will carry higher prices.Upgrades to bigger models will be costlier.
he may cut his earnings estimate for the current fiscal year.he had expected at least some mainframe profit this year.
he may cut his earnings estimate for the current fiscal year because he had expected at least some mainframe profit this year.that he expected to raise his estimate for fiscal 1991 at the same time.
the new VAX will let them stay with Digital.they need the power of a mainframe.
the new VAX will let them stay with Digital.they need the power of a mainframe.
targeting International Business Machines Corp. 's largest market.Digital plans to compete fiercely with IBM when the giant's customers are computerizing new aspects of their businesses.
to compete fiercely with IBM.the giant's customers are computerizing new aspects of their businesses.
Digital also plans to compete fiercely with IBM when the giant's customers are computerizing new aspects of their businesses.Digital doesn't expect to displace IBM mainframes that are already installed at big companies.
In addition to commercial markets, Digital's new line targets the low end of the engineering and scientific supercomputer market.it's packaged with an optional supercharger, known as a vector processor.
In addition to commercial markets, Digital's new line targets the low end of the engineering and scientific supercomputer market.it's packaged with an optional supercharger, known as a vector processor.
profit margins in that market are much slimmer than for mainframes.Digital has staked out a major presence in the booming workstation market.
Although Digital has staked out a major presence in the booming workstation market, profit margins in that market are much slimmer than for mainframes.The slow-growing mainframe market has shown new signs of life lately.
Demand for these systems has been very, very strong.the 3090 line is nearly five years old -- which is getting up there in mainframe years -- and its growth is expected to slow in 1990.
But the 3090 line is nearly five years old.its growth is expected to slow in 1990.
But the 3090 line is nearly five years old.its growth is expected to slow in 1990.
to bring out the mainframes.it could.
coming in December.customers seek to use budgets before year end.
coming in December.customers seek to use budgets before year end.
it wanted to bring out the mainframes as soon as it could to spark as many sales as possible by the end of the year.I don't see that this will be sufficient to give IBM a significant kick in the fourth quarter.
it will have problems in the quarter, partly because of a delay in shipping a high-end disk drive.and the strong dollar will cut significantly the value of IBM's overseas earnings when translated into dollars.
and partly because the strong dollar will cut significantly the value of IBM's overseas earnings.translated into dollars.
The White House called on Congress to attach the proposed capital-gains tax cut to its final deficit-reduction bill.lawmakers seem likely to balk at the idea.
Earlier this month, the White House endorsed stripping the controversial tax measure from the bill.Congress could pass quickly a "clean" bill containing only provisions specifically designed to meet federal budget targets under the Gramm-Rudman act.
Earlier this month, the White House endorsed stripping the controversial tax measure from the bill so that Congress could pass quickly a "clean" bill containing only provisions specifically designed to meet federal budget targets under the Gramm-Rudman act.now that Congress has missed the legal deadline for meeting the Gramm-Rudman targets, the White House said it has returned to its original view that a capital-gains cut should be part of the deficit-reduction bill, on which Congress continues to work.
But it has returned to its original view that a capital-gains cut should be part of the deficit-reduction bill, on which Congress continues to work.Congress has missed the legal deadline for meeting the Gramm-Rudman targets.
that doesn't happen.we press forward on another vehicle and a separate vote.
it has returned to its original view that a capital-gains cut should be part of the deficit-reduction bill.On Capitol Hill there doesn't seem to be sufficient sentiment to pair capital gains and the deficit-reduction bill.
On Capitol Hill, though, there doesn't seem to be sufficient sentiment to pair capital gains and the deficit-reduction bill.President Bush stepped up his personal lobbying for the capital-gains tax cut.
On Capitol Hill, though, there doesn't seem to be sufficient sentiment to pair capital gains and the deficit-reduction bill.President Bush stepped up his personal lobbying for the capital-gains tax cut.
Two products in what the telecommunications giant called a new generation of such equipment are available now.three others will be introduced in 1990 and 1991.
The products already available are cross-connect systems, used instead of mazes of wiring to interconnect other telecommunications equipment.To be introduced are a multiplexer, which will allow several signals to travel along a single optical line; a light-wave system, which carries voice channels; and a network controller, which directs data flow through cross-connect systems.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. unveiled new optical transmission systems for data, video and voice communications.which have announced Sonet-based products.
Law firms that have feasted and grown on the revenue from mergers and acquisitions work are feeling the squeeze.that work declines.
Law firms that have feasted and grown on the revenue from mergers and acquisitions work are feeling the squeeze.that work declines.
many lawyers say their firms are bracing for lower revenue from merger work.it is still too early to tell whether the dearth of takeover activity is only temporary.
you can't bill the same kind of premium as when deals took a few weeks from start to finish.deals take longer to complete and there are fewer of them to do.
If deals take longer to complete.there are fewer of them to do.
We're planning on a rip-roaring year in 1989.next year we'll be another story.
if deals can be done at sensible prices.if money is available.
the slump began earlier this year.more obvious in recent weeks.
What's more transactions are taking a much longer time to conclude.many fall apart for lack of financing" and more stringent scrutiny by state courts.
Lawyers at such firms as Sullivan & Cromwell; Willkie Farr & Gallagher; Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz; and Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson all say they, too, have experienced a significant slowdown, particularly during the past few weeks Some lawyers say the slump, while more obvious in recent weeks, began earlier this year What's more, he said, "transactions are taking a much longer time to conclude and many fall apart for lack of financing" and more stringent scrutiny by state courts.Lawyers say an erratic stock market and uncertain financing conditions have sharply reduced the number of lucrative big deals likely to be proposed.
Law firms that have feasted and grown on the revenue from mergers and acquisitions work are feeling the squeeze as that work declines.the mergers slowdown hasn't affected foreign buyers as much as domestic ones.
We just took another floor for our London offices," said Joseph Flom of the New York firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom.Davis Polk & Wardwell said its international clients are keeping mergers and acquisitions partners busy.
European companies are looking to buy American ones.the question is whether things people are looking at will actually surface in live transactions in light of the current market conditions.
that Mr. Lorin was the "real master criminal" behind the stock manipulation.that Mr. Laff knew nothing about it.
Mr. Lorin, a stock promoter, pleaded guilty to the stock-manipulation charges in April and agreed to cooperate with the government's investigation of Mr. Laff.Stanley Aslanian, the Haas broker who agreed to carry a hidden microphone during the conversation has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit securities violations in the stock manipulation and agreed to cooperate.
According to the transcript, Mr. Lorin said Mr. Laff should be killed.Mr. Aslanian told him that information given to Mr. Laff by another conspirator could jeopardize the stock scheme.
According to the transcript, Mr. Lorin said Mr. Laff should be killed after Mr. Aslanian told him that information given to Mr. Laff by another conspirator could jeopardize the stock scheme.Mr. Lorin repeated the threat.
Mr. Lorin then repeated the threat.Mr. Aslanian urged him not to say such things.
Mr. Lang said Judge Thomas P. Griesa had instructed him not to release it or the memorandum.asked for a copy of the transcript.
the witness again said no.Mr. Lang asked Mr. Lorin whether he had taken steps to have Mr. Laff killed.
For the past six years, Mr. Menell, 43 years old, served as vice president for government affairs at American Express.He was staff director and counsel for the Senate committee on banking, housing and urban affairs.
Delmed Inc. 's top two officers resigned and were succeeded by executives of Fresenius USA Inc. and its parent, Fresenius AG, a major Delmed holder that has been negotiating to acquire a controlling stake.negotiations about pricing had collapsed between it and a major distributor, National Medical Care Inc.
Robert S. Ehrlich resigned as chairman, president and chief executive.Leslie I. Shapiro, chief operating officer and chief financial officer resigned.
under which Fresenius would buy Delmed stock for cash to bring its beneficial ownership to between 70% and 80% of Delmed's fully diluted common stock.The transaction would combine Fresenius USA and Delmed.
Delmed will continue to supply dialysis products through National Medical after their exclusive agreement ends in March 1990.the discussions between Delmed and National Medical Care have been discontinued.
Delmed will continue to supply dialysis products through National Medical.their exclusive agreement ends in March 1990.
While the discussions between Delmed and National Medical Care have been discontinued, Delmed will continue to supply dialysis products through National Medical after their exclusive agreement ends in March 1990.Delmed is exploring distribution arrangements with Fresenius USA.
Sales of the heart drug TPA were $43.6 million, better than last year's depressed third period when the company sold just $29.1 million of the drug.TPA sales fell below levels for this year's first and second quarter sales of $48 million.
We continue to be on target for . . . increasing TPA sales 20% to 25% this year.some analysts remain sour on the company.
Expenses are flat.that's a good sign.
There's contract revenue from {limited research and development} partnerships.I still think the fundamentals are poor.
Genentech faces competition in the cardiac-drug market from SmithKline Beecham PLC's heart drug Eminase, expected to receive market approval shortly.Genentech isn't likely to have any new products ready for market until at least 1992.
The company's stock is trading at 40 times next year's numbers.that's too much.
that the majority of the $57 million was linked to workers' compensation reserves and anticipated losses on the disposal of trucks.Ryder didn't break out the charge.
We're constantly trying to find ways to regain the earnings momentum.we're still at the beginning stages of some of these changes.
that calls for creditors and shareholders to receive at least $78.8 million in cash and $67 million face amount of 10-year, 13.5% notes.The plan calls for creditors and shareholders to receive common stock and warrants in the new company.
General unsecured creditors of the parent holding company initially will receive $14 million in cash, $22 million face amount of senior notes and 49% of the new company's stock.Maxicare will guarantee that the banks will realize at least $7 million on certain notes pledged to them.
Steelmaking resumed Oct. 18.the company expects production to be hampered in the next few months by traffic disruptions around the plant and outages for repair to gas and electric power systems.
The average interest rate rose to 8.337% at Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.292% at last week's sale.that the average rate fell to 7.962% at its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 7.986% at last week's sale.
that Saab is looking for a partner for industrial and financial cooperation.that partner isn't Fiat.
that the Swedish company will have to look for a partner among other car manufacturers.both Ford Motor Corp. and Fiat have turned down the offer.
ITT Corp. reported a 4% decline in third-quarter net income, despite a 4.2% rise in revenue.ITT forecast a fourth-quarter blow to earnings from the California earthquake.
ITT Corp., its insurance business hurt by Hurricane Hugo, reported a 4% decline in third-quarter net income, despite a 4.2% rise in revenue..ITT also forecast a fourth-quarter blow to earnings from the California earthquake.Except for insurance it expects improved operating earnings "in all of our businesses for the full year.
Hartford expects to report a further pretax loss of about $30 million for the current quarter, as a result of the California earthquake this month.The company disclosed its financial operations had increased reserves for bankrupt accounts, resulting in a $40 million pretax charge for the third quarter.
its financial operations had increased reserves for bankrupt accounts, resulting in a $40 million pretax charge for the third quarter.This charge was partly offset by $19 million in pretax capital gains.
The company also disclosed its financial operations had increased reserves for bankrupt accounts, resulting in a $40 million pretax charge for the third quarter.ITT said its consumer finance unit agreed in September to settle a civil suit with the California attorney general over alleged improper lending and sales practices.
Amoco, an energy concern, is the operator of the project with a 43.75% working interest.other partners include Hydro Congo, the Congolese state oil company, with a 50% interest, and Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration Co. with a 6.25% stake.
Coda owned 60% of the pipeline.private entities owned the rest.
that because of a strike by Finance Ministry personnel the provisional estimate doesn't correspond exactly to the consumer price index usually published.the estimate will likely be confirmed.
The institute didn't estimate annual price growth in September.a 0.2% rise by the consumer price index would put growth at either 178.8 or 178.9, up 3.3% or 3.4% from the year-earlier level of 173.1.
to join.the venture completes a business plan, probably later this week.
It's one of the most popular computer programs of all time.the Quickview suit doesn't appear to bode major difficulties for Apple.
The technology at issue "is not an underlying technology of HyperCard to my knowledge.the suit seeks unspecified damages that an attorney for Quickview claimed could run into the millions of dollars.
that it believes the case has no merit.that HyperCard does not infringe "any valid claims" of the Quickview patents.
I believe he points the gun in the wrong direction.I agree with many of Mr. Kageyama's comments.
It isn't the Americans who must be criticized for not understanding the Japanese culture.the Japanese who insist on forcing their culture on Americans.
The Japanese want us to accept their culture.they refuse to accept the American culture.
Americans to behave.they were Japanese.
Japanese managers can't expect Americans to behave as if they were Japanese.they must manage Americans as Americans.
to conform to the Japanese culture.in Japan.
the Japanese to conform to American norms.they locate here.
Americans place native or native speakers in charge of subsidiaries overseas..European multinationals do likewise; even in America, their affiliates are usually run by American managers.the Japanese insist upon Japanese managers everywhere they set up shop.
I question his perspective.Mr. Kageyama does an excellent job of explaining the differences, both cultural and philosophic.
Would he suggest that employees of an American company doing business in Japan conform to their new bosses' culture and philosophy?.Obviously not.the conclusion is that the burden rests with management to understand/adopt the culture and philosophy of the country in which they are operating.
The workers can be motivated.the company reach its full potential.
The workers can be motivated, and the company reach its full potential.management embraces the employees' perspective.
The workers can be motivated, and the company reach its full potential.management embraces the employees' perspective.
A manager should not have to rebut the opinions of his employees about the style of his management.he should listen to see how that criticism can be used constructively to advance his objective of carrying out a set of tasks through the efforts of his subordinates.
that Mr. Kageyama has still failed to attack the root cause of the problem and is simply treating symptoms.the response to criticism is only a better explanation of policies without altering the reasons for the criticism.
that Mr. Kageyama has still failed to attack the root cause of the problem and is simply treating symptoms.the response to criticism is only a better explanation of policies without altering the reasons for the criticism.
Suddenly, George Bush the pro-choice advocate became George Bush the anti-abortionist.the vacillation didn't end there.
to veto a pending welfare bill.it provided any abortion funds, except to save a woman's life.
to veto a pending welfare bill if it provided any abortion funds.to save a woman's life.
Just a month ago, Mr. Bush sternly threatened to veto a pending welfare bill if it provided any abortion funds, except to save a woman's life.two weeks ago the president said he would consider a compromise to fund abortions for poor women in cases of rape and incest.
Then, two weeks ago the president said he would consider a compromise to fund abortions for poor women in cases of rape and incest.only four days after that, Mr. Bush resurrected the veto threat.
Just a month ago, Mr. Bush sternly threatened to veto a pending welfare bill if it provided any abortion funds, except to save a woman's life..Then, two weeks ago -- declaring that "I'm not looking for any conflict over this" -- the president said he would consider a compromise to fund abortions for poor women in cases of rape and incest..But only four days after that, Mr. Bush resurrected the veto threat. "I do not support federal funding for abortions except where the mother's life is threatened," he proclaimed.and vetoed the measure last weekend.
In all honesty I don't know.you ask me, `Is this man a true believer.
Anti-abortion forces regard him as at best an uncertain ally.abortion-rights forces remain bitterly critical.
For most of the past nine years, he has striven to convince anti-abortion activists of his stalwart support for their position.ever since the Supreme Court's Webster vs..Reproductive Health Services decision this year changed the political landscape of the abortion issue, the president seemingly has tried just as hard to avoid saying anything more unless pressed to the wall.
But the president seemingly has tried just as hard to avoid saying anything more unless pressed to the wall.the Supreme Court's Webster vs..Reproductive Health Services decision this year changed the political landscape of the abortion issue.
saying anything more.pressed to the wall.
The political risk would be far less.the president drew a firm line and hewed to it.
you're better off to stick with it than to move around very much.you have a position.
By his moderate Republican heritage as well as the warnings of political advisers who say the issue is vital to younger voters, the president might seem to have at least some sympathy with abortion-rights arguments.he is also firmly bound by his hard-line rhetoric and promises he made to anti-abortion activists during his long pursuit of the White House.
By his moderate Republican heritage as well as the warnings of political advisers who say the issue is vital to younger voters, the president might seem to have at least some sympathy with abortion-rights arguments.Yet he is firmly bound by his hard-line rhetoric and promises he made to anti-abortion activists during his long pursuit of the White House.
On many issues -- flag-burning, for instance -- his keen political sensitivities overcome such conflicts.Mr. Bush and his advisers miscalculated the politics of the abortion issue, failing to grasp how dramatically the abortion-rights movement would be aroused following last summer's Supreme Court decision to restrict those rights in the Webster case.
These days the usually loquacious president can be close-mouthed almost to the point of curtness.others raise the subject of abortion.
These days the usually loquacious president can be close-mouthed almost to the point of curtness.others raise the subject of abortion.
In 1974, as the U.S. representative to the United Nations, he wrote an introduction to a book on world population in which he boasted of his leadership during his term in Congress in expanding family-planning services for the poor.Running for president in early 1980, he was quoted as supporting federal funding for abortions in cases of rape, incest and to save the life of the mother.
In his Rolling Stone interview in 1980, Mr. Bush volunteered his abortion-rights remarks to contrast himself with his rival, Ronald Reagan.As Mr. Reagan's running mate Mr. Bush plunged headlong into the anti-abortion position.
that he would support a constitutional amendment banning abortions except in cases of rape, incest and life endangerment.that he opposed federal funding in all but the latter case.
His rhetoric gathered momentum.he rolled into office.
His rhetoric gathered momentum as he rolled into office, affirming his "firm support of our cause" during an anti-abortion rally three days after his inauguration last January..He again urged passage of a constitutional amendment outlawing abortion.when the high court ruled in the Webster case in July, the president began to lower the volume.
But the president began to lower the volume.the high court ruled in the Webster case in July.
the vacationing president dispatched Chief of Staff John Sununu to issue a statement and refused to answer questions himself.the ruling was handed down.
When the ruling was handed down, the vacationing president dispatched Chief of Staff John Sununu to issue a statement and refused to answer questions himself.He did threaten vetoes over legislation restoring the District of Columbia's right to use its own tax money to fund abortions for poor women and over restoring funding to the United Nations Population Fund.
He did later threaten vetoes over legislation restoring the District of Columbia's right to use its own tax money to fund abortions for poor women and over restoring funding to the United Nations Population Fund.in the months since then, while trying to drum up support for other issues -- such as an anti-flag-burning constitutional amendment -- he has shied away from talking about abortion.
But in the months since then he has shied away from talking about abortion.trying to drum up support for other issues -- such as an anti-flag-burning constitutional amendment.
But in the months since then he has shied away from talking about abortion.The White House has avoided any involvement in Florida's recent special legislative session on abortion.
it is clear that our constitutionally mandated civil rights have evolved not through the goodness of people's hearts but through legislation and constitutional amendments.we look closely at our own history.
it is clear that our constitutionally mandated civil rights have evolved not through the goodness of people's hearts but through legislation and constitutional amendments.we look closely at our own history.
This is how American women won the right to vote.it is how African-Americans and other minority groups were guaranteed their equal rights as citizens in this nation.
Disabled Americans have had their civil rights guaranteed in all federally funded programs.Section 504 was passed as a part of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act.
Donald DeScenza, an independent analyst in New Canaan, Conn., said he was "impressed with the company's performance.Harry Millis, an analyst at McDonald & Co., Cleveland, said Goodyear's results "fell at the bottom" of his range of estimates.
Excluding an increase in the tax rate and the effects of foreign currency translations.the company's results "were a little disappointing.
Goodyear appeared to have held or gained some market share in the U.S. for the first time since the second quarter of 1988.total U.S. tire unit sales were off about 2%.
Total tire segment sales were up only about 1% to $2.2 billion.it reduced manufacturing levels at some of its U.S. tire plants because of inventory adjustments and slackened production by auto makers.
In the latest quarter, Goodyear's tax rate was 51% compared with 41% a year earlier.total tax outlays were $73.5 million, compared with $44.1 million the year earlier.
steel profits were close to a cyclical peak.he handed over the reins to successor Charles A. Corry.
they weren't running away with the market.imports were troublesome.
Though imports were troublesome, they weren't running away with the market.American companies had high hopes that steel import quotas would be extended for another five years.
Mr. Icahn, the company's deep-pocketed, tenacious adversary, recently disclosed that he had raised his USX stake to 13.1%.he again threatened a takeover.
Mr. Icahn, the company's deep-pocketed, tenacious adversary, recently disclosed that he had raised his USX stake to 13.1%, and he again threatened a takeover.USX's giant steel segment is facing softening demand and slipping prices as well as increasing competition from foreign steelmakers and low-cost minimills.
The import quotas got only a 2 1/2-year extension.USX is laboring under a staggering $5.8 billion debt at a time when it must spend money to upgrade steel mills and drill for oil.
Mr. Corry might have to dismember the company more than he wants to.he might have to incur a huge expense of either buying Mr. Icahn's stock, possibly at a premium, or paying stockholders a special dividend partly because of Mr. Icahn's pressure.
In 1986, Mr. Roderick adroitly dodged Mr. Icahn's first bullet.the takeover specialist had built up an 11.4% stake.
In 1986, Mr. Roderick adroitly dodged Mr. Icahn's first bullet after the takeover specialist had built up an 11.4% stake.he managed to fend off further advances and even strike up an unlikely friendship with the interloper.
He was shocked to learn of Mr. Icahn's new takeover threat.the fiercely competitive Mr. Corry quickly showed he's no pushover.
it adopted a poison-pill defense.the board believed that Mr. Icahn is more interested in talking the stock price higher than acquiring USX.
to be swallowed.anyone amasses a 15% stake.
Mr. Icahn may not want to sell out.he can get a special dividend similar to one he received before selling his stake in Texaco Inc. in June -- a coup that gave him enough cash to make his USX move.
he received.selling his stake in Texaco Inc. in June.
Mr. Icahn may not want to sell out unless he can get a special dividend similar to one he received before selling his stake in Texaco Inc. in June -- a coup that gave him enough cash to make his USX move.although the recent turmoil in the stock and junk-bond markets, by making it harder to arrange takeover financing, has eased some of the pressure on Mr. Corry, it doesn't end the takeover threat.
And it doesn't end the takeover threat.the recent turmoil in the stock and junk-bond markets has eased some of the pressure on Mr. Corry.
I know it's not over," a sober-faced Mr. Corry acknowledged.greeting steel suppliers in New York on Oct. 12 and inviting them to a buffet of salmon and sushi in honor of Kobe Steel Ltd., USX's partner in a steel mill in Lorain, Ohio.
it's not over.it's barely begun for Mr. Corry.
who faces tough decisions.he has had a chance to get settled into his new job.
He's in a vulnerable position.he hasn't established much credibility on his own.
who dabbled in zoology.he concluded that he couldn't stand cutting up frogs.
An undistinguished college student who dabbled in zoology until he concluded that he couldn't stand cutting up frogs, Mr. Corry wanted to work for a big company "that could do big things.after joining the tax department of a USX subsidiary 30 years ago, he set the modest goal of becoming tax manager by the age of 46.
But he set the modest goal of becoming tax manager by the age of 46.joining the tax department of a USX subsidiary 30 years ago.
wearing a hat to work.everyone else did.
But after joining the tax department of a USX subsidiary 30 years ago, he set the modest goal of becoming tax manager by the age of 46..For years, he quietly stuck to the back accounting rooms, wearing a hat to work because everyone else did.the unassuming Mr. Corry helped chart USX's transition from Big Steel to Big Oil.
He served as Mr. Roderick's front man in tense negotiations for the 1982 purchase of Marathon Oil for $5.9 billion.Mr. Corry, once named chief executive, didn't waste any time distancing himself from his former boss.
Mr. Corry rescinded a pay cut imposed on clerical workers, a move that Mr. Roderick hadn't made in spite of improved earnings.taking over last June.
Mr. Corry rescinded a pay cut imposed on clerical workers, a move that Mr. Roderick hadn't made in spite of improved earnings.Mr. Corry ruled that all board meetings would be held in Pittsburgh instead of New York or Findlay, Ohio, Marathon's home.
Soon after taking over last June, Mr. Corry rescinded a pay cut imposed on clerical workers, a move that Mr. Roderick hadn't made in spite of improved earnings..Mr. Corry also ruled that all board meetings would be held in Pittsburgh instead of New York or Findlay, Ohio, Marathon's home.earlier this month, he announced the sale of the reserves of Texas Oil & Gas, which was acquired three years ago and hasn't posted any significant operating profits since.
What's more, the takeover occurred.natural-gas prices were falling.
What's more, the takeover occurred.and Texas Oil & Gas reported its first annual loss in 28 years.
Mr. Corry expected the Texas Oil & Gas sale to delight Mr. Icahn by addressing his concern about boosting shareholder value.when the two men met in New York a day after Mr. Icahn disclosed the rise in his USX stake, Mr. Corry learned that Mr. Icahn wanted him to sell all of Texas Oil -- not just its reserves of about 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 28 million barrels of oil but also its pipeline, gas-gathering and contract-drilling operations.
But Mr. Corry learned that Mr. Icahn wanted him to sell all of Texas Oil -- not just its reserves of about 1.2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 28 million barrels of oil but also its pipeline, gas-gathering and contract-drilling operations.the two men met in New York a day after Mr. Icahn disclosed the rise in his USX stake.
when the two men met in New York.Mr. Icahn disclosed the rise in his USX stake.
that Mr. Corry would agree.he could find a buyer at the right price.
that the company is worth $70 a share.broken up.
Mr. Icahn advocates the sale of the company's steel operations.Mr. Corry doesn't necessarily disagree.
In the past five years, USX has turned steel into a profit maker by closing several plants and reducing labor costs.the short-term outlook is so-so.
Mr. Corry grew up in Cincinnati, a city nicknamed "Porkapolis" and more accustomed to pork chops than pig iron.Mr. Roderick was reared in the shadows of Pittsburgh's smoking mills.
Dave thought the country needed a strong U.S. Steel.while Chuck agreed, he was more apt to say, `Not at any cost to shareholders.
and he was more apt to say, `Not at any cost to shareholders.Chuck agreed.
he was more apt to say, `Not at any cost to shareholders.Mr. Corry, at an August press conference, talked about investing in steel as long as it provides a good return and "not a day longer.
investing in steel.it provides a good return and "not a day longer.
investing in steel.it provides a good return and "not a day longer.
Indeed, Mr. Corry, at an August press conference, talked about investing in steel as long as it provides a good return and "not a day longer.shedding steel would run directly counter to Mr. Roderick's original rationale for diversifying into oil and gas.
We're a two-product company.boy, if you can't figure out the value of those two parts, you are so damn dumb that you don't belong on Wall Street.
and, boy you are so damn dumb that you don't belong on Wall Street.you can't figure out the value of those two parts.
However, shedding steel would run directly counter to Mr. Roderick's original rationale for diversifying into oil and gas.the opportunity to sell steel at a price acceptable to USX may be gone, for now.
About the only way that USX now can get out of steel is to dish it out, piece by piece, in separate joint ventures.With Mr. Icahn breathing down his neck Mr. Corry may have little choice but to sell at a weak price, even if it means losing some steel-related tax-loss carryforwards.
but to sell at a weak price.it means losing some steel-related tax-loss carryforwards.
Oil has long been Mr. Corry's pet.when the Bush administration finally decided this summer to renew import restrictions -- arguably the most important decision to affect the steel industry in five years -- Mr. Corry and his directors were aboard helicopters, high above Marathon's rich oil reserves in the North Sea.
Indeed Mr. Corry and his directors were aboard helicopters, high above Marathon's rich oil reserves in the North Sea.the Bush administration finally decided this summer to renew import restrictions -- arguably the most important decision to affect the steel industry in five years.
Should USX be left with only Marathon, Mr. Corry might well feel pushed to scout out other energy companies.even USX executives who work closely with him aren't sure about his long-term goals.
However, even USX executives who work closely with him aren't sure about his long-term goals.One thing is certain Mr. Corry, while studying other options, probably won't make a major move until he's clear about Mr. Icahn's intentions.
Mr. Corry probably won't make a major move until he's clear about Mr. Icahn's intentions.studying other options.
Mr. Corry, while studying other options, probably won't make a major move.he's clear about Mr. Icahn's intentions.
Mr. Corry probably won't make a major move until he's clear about Mr. Icahn's intentions.then, "he won't panic.
until he's clear about Mr. Icahn's intentions.And he won't panic.
Mr. Corry learned presence under fire.as vice president of corporate planning, he handled what Mr. Johnston calls "don't-con-me" negotiations that led to USX's shedding of a wide array of assets ranging from chemicals to construction.
Mr. Corry played his cards close to the vest.negotiating.
What he really wanted to know was about a particular company.you didn't know that.
that equity can be bought.equity is bought.
to prove the Palestine Liberation Organization continues to practice terrorism.and to persuade the U.S. to break off talks with the group.
Israel has launched a new effort to prove the Palestine Liberation Organization continues to practice terrorism.they aren't buying the Israeli argument.
Israel wants to end the dialogue.our analysts take a different view than theirs.
to present the report to members of Congress, reporters and others.he presented the list last week to William Brown, U.S. Ambassador to Israel.
Israeli counterterrorism officials provided the State Department with a 20-page list of recent terrorist incidents they attribute directly to forces controlled by PLO Chairman Yasser Arafat.that the Israeli government had provided its correspondent in Jerusalem with different documents that Israel said prove the PLO has been conducting terrorism from the occupied Arab territories.
what would be the logical conclusion.the dialogue was based on the assumption that Arafat or the PLO would stop terrorism, and we have evidence of continued terrorism.
If the dialogue was based on the assumption that Arafat or the PLO would stop terrorism.we have evidence of continued terrorism, what would be the logical conclusion.
Mr. Arafat never meant to renounce terrorism.he and his lieutenants reserved the right to press "armed struggle" against the Jewish state.
At the heart of Israel's report is a list of a dozen incidents Jerusalem attributes to Fatah, including the use of bombs and Molotov cocktails.they aren't satisfied these incidents constitute terrorism.
they aren't satisfied these incidents constitute terrorism.they may be offshoots of the intifadah, the Palestinian rebellion in the occupied territories, which the U.S. doesn't classify as terrorism.
they aren't satisfied these incidents constitute terrorism because they may be offshoots of the intifadah, the Palestinian rebellion in the occupied territories, which the U.S. doesn't classify as terrorism.Israel hasn't presented convincing evidence these acts were ordered by Fatah or by any group Mr. Arafat controls.
In addition, the officials say Israel hasn't presented convincing evidence these acts were ordered by Fatah or by any group Mr. Arafat controls.U.S. terrorism experts say they are highly uncertain about the veracity of the separate documents leaked to the New York Times.
Some supporters of Israel say U.S. policy on Palestinian terrorism is colored by an intense desire to maintain the dialogue with the PLO.State Department officials accuse Israel of leaking questionable claims to embarrass the U.S.
Concern about the volatile U.S. stock market had faded in recent sessions.traders appeared content to let the dollar languish in a narrow range until tomorrow.
Concern about the volatile U.S. stock market had faded in recent sessions, and traders appeared content to let the dollar languish in a narrow range until tomorrow.seesaw gyrations in the Dow Jones Industrial Average yesterday put Wall Street back in the spotlight and inspired market participants to bid the U.S. unit lower.
By midmorning, the DJIA had plunged 80 points.foreign-exchange dealers quickly drove the dollar down.
the dollar bounced back in choppy dealings.the DJIA modestly rebounded.
When the DJIA modestly rebounded, the dollar bounced back in choppy dealings but ended the day below the levels of late Monday.Stock prices posted significant gains in later trading and closed down by only 3.69 points on the day.
When the DJIA modestly rebounded, the dollar bounced back in choppy dealings but ended the day below the levels of late Monday.Stock prices posted significant gains in later trading and closed down by only 3.69 points on the day.
Analysts peg the dollar's recent weakness to an underlying slowdown in the U.S. economy, highlighted by recent economic data, particularly a surprisingly sharp widening in the August U.S. trade gap.They point out that narrowing interest-rate differentials between the U.S. and its major trading partners tend to make the U.S. currency less attractive to foreign investors.
Traders attribute the mark's surge to a robust West German economy and higher rate differentials.they add that the mark's strength is in part a reflection of a shift away from U.S. assets by Japanese investors into West German investments.
The dollar finished lower yesterday, after tracking another rollercoaster session on Wall Street.sterling slumped on news that the United Kingdom posted a wider-than-expected trade deficit in September.
The dollar finished lower yesterday, after tracking another rollercoaster session on Wall Street.sterling slumped on news that the United Kingdom posted a wider-than-expected trade deficit in September.
Meanwhile, sterling slumped on news that the United Kingdom posted a wider-than-expected trade deficit in September.The news knocked the British unit to below 2.95 marks in London.
The news also knocked the British unit to below 2.95 marks in London.a bout of short-covering helped sterling recoup some of its earlier losses.
Boston Co., the upper-crust financial services concern that was rocked by a management scandal late last year, has had a sharp drop in profitability.a high-risk bet on interest rates backfired.
Boston Co. 's fall from grace is bad news for its parent, Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc., which has relied heavily on the banking and money management unit's contributions in recent years.In 1988 Boston Co. had an estimated pretax profit of at least $110 million, while Shearson managed net income of just $96 million.
In 1988, for example, Boston Co. had an estimated pretax profit of at least $110 million.Shearson managed net income of just $96 million.
Shearson doesn't break out the earnings of its subsidiaries.the unit had profit of around $17 million for the third quarter, after barely breaking even for the first six months.
the unit had profit of around $17 million for the third quarter.barely breaking even for the first six months.
the unit had profit of around $17 million for the third quarter, after barely breaking even for the first six months.Shearson posted net income of $106 million for the first nine months of the year, down slightly from $110 million for the year-ago period.
The mismatch exposed the company to a high degree of interest-rate risk.when rates moved unfavorably -- beginning late last year and continuing into this year -- "it cost them.
The mismatch exposed the company to a high degree of interest-rate risk.when rates moved unfavorably -- beginning late last year and continuing into this year -- "it cost them.
and it cost them.rates moved unfavorably.
that Boston Safe Deposit "has taken some actions to better control asset-liability management and improve controls in general.we think these will serve to improve credit quality.
the problems ought to ease.some securities mature and the proceeds are reinvested.
As some securities mature.the proceeds are reinvested.
Mr. Kriz noted that Boston Safe Deposit "has taken some actions to better control asset-liability management and improve controls in general, and we think these will serve to improve credit quality.he also cited concerns over the company's mortgage exposure in the troubled New England real estate market.
As some securities mature and the proceeds are reinvested, the problems ought to ease, he said.But he cited concerns over the company's mortgage exposure in the troubled New England real estate market.
Boston Co. officials declined to comment on Moody's action or on the unit's financial performance this year.to deny a published report that outside accountants had discovered evidence of significant accounting errors in the first three quarters' results.
The executives were accused of improperly deferring expenses and booking revenue early, in an effort to dress up results -- and perhaps bolster performance-related bonuses.Mr. von Germeten attributed the controversy to judgmental errors by accountants and accused Shearson of conducting a "witch hunt.
The executives were accused of improperly deferring expenses and booking revenue early, in an effort to dress up results -- and perhaps bolster performance-related bonuses.Mr. von Germeten attributed the controversy to judgmental errors by accountants and accused Shearson of conducting a "witch hunt.
Sears, Roebuck & Co. is struggling.it enters the critical Christmas season.
Yesterday, the retailing and financial services giant reported a 16% drop in third-quarter earnings to $257.5 million, or 75 cents a share, from a restated $305 million, or 80 cents a share, a year earlier.the news was even worse for Sears's core U.S. retailing operation, the largest in the nation.
to abandon the everyday pricing approach in the face of the poor results.a spokesman blames the dismal third-quarter showing on "an environment that is being distorted by a very harsh climate for sales of durable goods.
Sears expected that the pricing program wouldn't have any effect on revenue.an initial surge triggered by an advertising blitz in March.
Sears has been counting on growth coming from the large displays of brand-name merchandise it is adding to its stores over the next two years in what it calls "power formats.Sears faces an especially daunting challenge on the eve of the Christmas shopping season.
Sears is likely to be unsuccessful.it continues with its pricing policy when everyone else is offering unusual values.
if it continues with its pricing policy.everyone else is offering unusual values.
The company is highlighting more special deals in its advertising and stores.it's offering to defer finance charges on certain big-ticket items.
The company is highlighting more special deals in its advertising and stores, and it's offering to defer finance charges on certain big-ticket items.Sears is stepping up its television ads and changing its message.
Sears is also stepping up its television ads and changing its message.In a new TV ad a woman going through the Sunday newspaper brands as hype claims by other stores that they are offering goods for "50%, 60% and 70% off." By lowering prices throughout its stores, she says, "Sears has the right idea.
By lowering prices throughout its stores, she says, "Sears has the right idea.the ad also mentions Sears's sales -- a topic that the retailer has avoided since switching to everyday pricing.
In a new TV ad, for instance, a woman going through the Sunday newspaper brands as hype claims by other stores that they are offering goods for "50%, 60% and 70% off." By lowering prices throughout its stores, she says, "Sears has the right idea.But the ad mentions Sears's sales -- a topic that the retailer has avoided since switching to everyday pricing.
that the retailer has avoided.switching to everyday pricing.
it's something you don't want to miss.Sears has a sale at a special price.
it's something you don't want to miss.Sears has a sale at a special price.
that Sears is having a tough time attracting shoppers.it hasn't yet done enough to improve service or its selection of merchandise.
The number of people who said they were more likely to shop at Sears fell in September to 37% from 66% in March.the number of people who spontaneously cited lower prices as the reason for their interest in Sears declined to 16% in September from 33% in March.
You see some improvement in these other areas.it's a very small and slow process.
to absorb another big hit in the fourth quarter.claims pour in from the San Francisco earthquake.
to absorb another big hit in the fourth quarter as claims pour in from the San Francisco earthquake.the quake won't have as big a financial impact on Allstate as Hurricane Hugo did.
Profit at Sears's Allstate insurance unit fell 38% to $126.1 million because of Hurricane Hugo, which inflicted the greatest single storm damage loss in the company's history.Net income at Sears's Dean Witter Financials Services group rose nearly 32% to $35.7 million, reflecting improvements in its basic stock brokerage and Discover credit card businesses.
Imports of crude from the Middle East grew 17% from year-earlier levels.Southeast Asian crude imports grew 43%.
they fell 18% compared with August imports.Mideast crude imports were higher compared with year-earlier levels.
they fell 18% compared with August imports.Southeast Asian crude imports were 3.6% higher than August.
At this stage some people just "walk away" from homes where the mortgage exceeds current market value.most of them could have afforded to keep up their payments.
Encourage long-term occupancy by forgiving one month's payment (off the tail end of the mortgage) for every six months paid.perhaps have the down payment deferred to the end of the mortgage (balloon), but "forgiven" on a monthly pro-rata basis as long as the owner remains the occupant.
but "forgiven" on a monthly pro-rata basis.the owner remains the occupant.
but "forgiven" on a monthly pro-rata basis.the owner remains the occupant.
by "buying in" to their foreclosed properties at an inflated "balance due.Worse, the properties sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so, but are resold eventually (because of the attractiveness of the low down payment, etc.) to a marginal buyer who can't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs.
Worse, the properties then sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so, but are resold eventually (because of the attractiveness of the low down payment, etc.) to a marginal buyer who can't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs.having little vested interest that buyer will walk away.
Worse, the properties then sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so, but are resold eventually (because of the attractiveness of the low down payment, etc.) to a marginal buyer who can't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs.having little vested interest that buyer will walk away.
Worse, the properties then sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so, but are resold eventually (because of the attractiveness of the low down payment, etc.) to a marginal buyer who can't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs; and having little vested interest that buyer will walk away.the vicious cycle repeats itself all over again.
Worse, the properties then sit around deteriorating for maybe a year or so, but are resold eventually (because of the attractiveness of the low down payment, etc.) to a marginal buyer who can't afford both the mortgage and needed repairs; and having little vested interest that buyer will walk away.the vicious cycle repeats itself all over again.
Sales of Xerox copiers and other office products grew 1.6%; "we expected growth of 6% to 7%.with competitors such as Eastman Kodak Co. faltering in copier sales, Xerox's sales increases "were encouraging.
They are holding their own in a weak market.the restructuring is working.
Still, with competitors such as Eastman Kodak Co. faltering in copier sales, Xerox's sales increases "were encouraging," says Eugene Glazer of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "They are holding their own in a weak market, and the restructuring is working," he says.Mr. Glazer expects Xerox to experience tough sledding in financial services because of rate pressures and uncertainty surrounding tax treatment of capital gains.
In the quarter, the Crum & Forster insurance unit reported $200 million before tax of capital gains from property and casualty operations.The subsidiary increased reserves by $140 million, however, and set aside an additional $25 million for claims connected with Hurricane Hugo.
In the quarter, the Crum & Forster insurance unit reported $200 million before tax of capital gains from property and casualty operations.The subsidiary also increased reserves by $140 million and set aside an additional $25 million for claims connected with Hurricane Hugo.
New orders for durable goods fell back slightly in September.shooting up the month before.
Orders for military equipment, household appliances, machinery and other goods expected to last at least three years dipped 0.1% last month, to $126.68 billion.leaping 3.9% in August.
Most analysts had expected a sharper decline after the steep rise in August.a recent government report showing widespread layoffs in manufacturing had contributed to perceptions that the manufacturing sector of the economy had slowed to a crawl.
Most analysts had expected a sharper decline after the steep rise in August..Moreover, a recent government report showing widespread layoffs in manufacturing had contributed to perceptions that the manufacturing sector of the economy had slowed to a crawl.many economists pointed to a 1.8% September rise in orders outside the volatile transportation category.
That "suggests the manufacturing sector is not falling apart.It is not robust by any means.
an enormous jump in orders for heavy military equipment propped it up.a decline in orders for cars and civilian airplanes pulled down the orders total.
Orders for capital defense goods skyrocketed 56%.nearly all areas saw increases, including airplanes, missiles, ships, tanks and communications equipment.
Orders for military goods usually catapult in September.the Pentagon scrambles to spend its money before the new fiscal year begins Oct. 1.
Orders for military goods usually catapult in September.the Pentagon scrambles to spend its money before the new fiscal year begins Oct. 1.
to spend its money.the new fiscal year begins Oct. 1.
that the adjustment probably didn't factor out all of the wide-ranging surge in defense orders.all the numbers in the durable goods report were adjusted for seasonal fluctuations.
Unfilled orders for durable goods rose 0.4% in September, to $476.14 billion.declining for the first time in 2 1/2 years in August.
Unfilled orders for durable goods rose 0.4% in September, to $476.14 billion, after declining for the first time in 2 1/2 years in August..In July unfilled orders grew 1%.that excluding transportation order backlogs have declined for three months in a row.
It means we're eating into the bread that keeps us going.It means if you have a real drop-off in orders, production will likely fall off very quickly because there is less to keep things going.
production will likely fall off very quickly because there is less to keep things going.you have a real drop-off in orders.
production will likely fall off very quickly.there is less to keep things going.
Such steep drops in a category seen as a barometer of business investment would customarily be grave news for the economy.that in both months orders would have risen had it not been for a drop in civilian aircraft bookings, a category that is showing declines only after a huge surge earlier this year.
But a Commerce Department analyst said that in both months orders would have risen had it not been for a drop in civilian aircraft bookings, a category that is showing declines only after a huge surge earlier this year.Milton Hudson, senior economic adviser at Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York, said: "If you look back a half-year or so the evidence was pretty good of affirmative strength in the capital-goods sector..Now at least there are question marks about that, and without any question the pace of growth has slowed.
the evidence was pretty good of affirmative strength in the capital-goods sector.you look back a half-year or so.
Now at least there are question marks about that.without any question the pace of growth has slowed.
Analysts said they expected the action.investors applauded the move.
they expected the action.analysts don't expect the buy-back to significantly affect per-share earnings in the short term.
The impact won't be that great That is in part because of the effect of having to average the number of shares outstanding.Norfolk is likely to draw down its cash initially to finance the purchases and thus forfeit some interest income.
In addition Norfolk is likely to draw down its cash initially to finance the purchases.and forfeit some interest income.
Still, analysts don't expect the buy-back to significantly affect per-share earnings in the short term.Longer term the buy-back is expected to increase earnings, especially after 1990.
Longer term, however, the buy-back is expected to increase earnings, especially after 1990.the extensive program in effect establishes a floor for the stock price.
At a certain price they can go in and buy it.the management thinks {the stock} is cheap.
Your Oct. 2 editorial "Reding, Wrighting & Erithmatic" on the recent "education summit" was like most pieces on the subject of education: It had little to say.Oddly on the very same page you printed a comment that addresses one of the most serious shortcomings of the American education system.
Unfortunately, the comment was buried in another article.it could not stand out in an education context.
After a wonderfully frivolous early childhood, they are exposed to rigid discipline.they enter school.
all the worthy concern, discussions and actions will not solve the problem.parents and educators alike start to develop more discipline in children.
Now this remarkable economic growth seems to be coming to an end.the government has not converted itself into a modern, democratic, "developed nation" mode of operation.
it protected them.industries were weak.
The LDP won by a landslide in the last election, in July 1986.less than two years later, the LDP started to crumble, and dissent rose to unprecedented heights.
But less than two years later, the LDP started to crumble.dissent rose to unprecedented heights.
to give the people as much choice as possible and to keep them well informed.they are capable of making a choice.
to give the people as much choice as possible and to keep them well informed so they are capable of making a choice.It allows people to buy the best and the cheapest goods from anywhere in the world.
The Ministry of Construction spreads concrete throughout the country and boasts in international conferences that Japan's paved roadway per capita is the longest in the world.they seldom think of the poor commuters who spend so much time sitting in traffic.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Fishery actually is a ministry for farmers and fishermen instead of a ministry of provisions..The Ministry of Health and Welfare is a ministry of doctors and pharmaceutical companies rather than an organization dedicated to protecting the health of the people..The Ministry of Education is nothing but a cartel for licensed teachers, and certainly does not act on behalf of students..The Ministry of Construction spreads concrete throughout the country and boasts in international conferences that Japan's paved roadway per capita is the longest in the world, but they seldom think of the poor commuters who spend so much time sitting in traffic..The Ministry of Transportation serves the industry, certainly not the passengers who must pay extraordinarily high prices.the Ministry of Foreign Affairs works for itself, supporting Japanese diplomats who sprinkle abundant aid money around the world to ensure that their seat at the dinner table is next to the host's.
to correct the misunderstandings and misperceptions that are at the root of Japan's deteriorating image.it seems to be using foreign pressure and even the trade conflict to expand its sphere of influence vis a vis other ministries.
The rest of the world accepted such methods.Japan was developing.
Japanese put up with it.the government provided job stability and growing paychecks.
The Diet doesn't normally even debate bills.the opposition parties are so often opposed to whatever LDP does that it would be a waste of time.
The Diet doesn't normally even debate bills because the opposition parties are so often opposed to whatever LDP does that it would be a waste of time.most bills are passed without full discussion; particularly difficult bills are passed in the absence of the opposition parties.
where direct tax accounts for more than 70% of revenues.the capture rate of direct tax is so unfair.
Amen! 100% captured.you are a salaried man.
50%.you are a retailer.
To correct this inequality, most people would have favored an indirect tax, like the consumption tax.the bill was passed without debate in the Diet, in the absence of the opposition.
But the bill was passed without debate in the Diet, in the absence of the opposition.the Japanese people didn't know what to expect when the new law was introduced on April 1.
As a result, the Japanese people didn't know what to expect.the new law was introduced on April 1.
the LDP politicians were caught in scandals.people were jingling their change.
women were upset about both and surged to the polls.most men were a bit ambivalent about the sex scandals.
Whereas most men were a bit ambivalent about the sex scandals.they were furious about Recruit.
It is difficult to analyze how much of their anger was due to Recruit, the sex scandals, or the one-yen coins in their purses.they obviously were voting to punish the LDP.
the LDP, as currently composed, can't make the transformation.it should split into two parties.
In the current mood of the Japanese people, journalists and even some industrialists, giving power to the Socialists might be good for the LDP, cleansing it of past sins.that such a humble political experiment could cause a global tidal wave of shocks in real-estate and financial markets.
At the most there is only nine months.the LDP fuse burns out.
Men are still combing the beach with shovels and hand brushes, searching for that unusual glint.only after a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the world's diamond kingpins, do their work.
Men are still combing the beach with shovels and hand brushes, searching for that unusual glint.But a fleet of 336 gargantuan earthmoving vehicles belonging to De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd., the world's diamond kingpins, do their work.
Last year, 43 million tons of desert were moved from one dune to another to recover 934,242 carats.Oh yes, the Atlantic was pushed back 300 yards.
we'll get to them.there's diamonds out there.
a higher percentage of them go to industrial use.other mines might yield more carats.
it has been turned into one.this treasure chest is too big to fit in a bank vault.
the German colonialists who controlled Namibia proclaimed a wide swath of the desert -- about 200 miles north from the Orange River and 60 miles inland from the Atlantic -- a restricted area, a designation normally reserved for military operations.railway worker Zacharias Lewala first picked up a diamond from the sand in 1908.
they lost Namibia to South Africa and the diamonds to Ernest Oppenheimer, patriarch of Anglo American Corp. and De Beers.the Germans lost World War I.
Today, no one gets in or out of the restricted area without De Beers's stingy approval.The mining zone has remained one of the most desolate places in Africa.
Jackals roam the streets at night.gemsbok, hardy antelope with long straight horns, wander in from the desert to drink from water sprinklers.
The mining zone has thus remained one of the most desolate places in Africa.miners from all parts of Namibia as well as professional staff from De Beers's head offices in South Africa and London keep coming.
Still, miners from all parts of Namibia as well as professional staff from De Beers's head offices in South Africa and London keep coming.Oranjemund boasts attractions besides diamonds.
Huge machines that look as though they came from the Star Wars desert-battle scene lumber among the dunes..Mechanized vacuum cleaners probe the sand like giant anteaters; a whirring ferris wheellike excavator, with buckets instead of seats, chews through layers of compacted sand; tracks and conveyor belts, shuttling sand to the screening plants, criss-cross the beach.there is the artifical sea wall, 600 yards long and 60 yards thick, jutting into the ocean.
it is moved northward.the mining in front of the wall is complete.
Engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier.the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood.
Engineers first used concrete blocks to bolster the barrier, but the ocean tossed them aside like driftwood.someone decided to try broken-down earthmoving equipment that, inexplicably, held against the waves.
The Caterpillar people aren't too happy.they see their equipment used like that.
Laboring in blue and gray overalls, they are supposed to concentrate on cleaning out crevices, and not strain their eyes looking for diamonds.should they spy one, the company will pay a bonus equal to one-third its value.
For these workers at the bottom of the mine's pay scale, this is usually enough to overcome the temptation to steal -- a crime that could earn them up to 15 years in jail.employees do occasionally try to smuggle out a gem or two.
some officials talked of perhaps adding a penny to the state gasoline tax or raising property taxes.Hurricane Hugo battered South Carolina.
They're mentioning rope.there's been a hanging in the family.
the governor believes he can avoid increases by relying on federal aid and shifting funds in state programs.Hugo's impact may revive unsuccessful proposals to give local governments authority to levy sales taxes.
Legislators are talking about temporary rises in sales or gasoline taxes.Gov. Deukmejian says they should be a last resort.
Needs aren't clear.the state constitution makes increasing taxes and spending very difficult.
Needs aren't clear, and the state constitution makes increasing taxes and spending very difficult.some legislators think the time may be ripe to revise the constitution.
THE IRS WILL PAY.its error burdens you with bank charges.
it will reimburse a taxpayer who hasn't refused to give timely answers to IRS inquiries or hasn't contributed to continuing or compounding the error.the IRS admits its error and the charges have been paid.
If the IRS admits its error.the charges have been paid.
it will reimburse the taxpayer for the stop-payment charge on the original.the IRS asks for and gets a replacement for a check that it concedes it lost in processing.
Reimbursement claims must be filed with the IRS district or service-center director.the expense accrues.
you should request interest abatement.the IRS seeks late-payment interest because of the lost check.
borrowed against a first mortgage on the five acres.and collateralized by the 15 acres.
the Blandings want to deduct home-mortgage interest on the $200,000 loan.no rule or court case bears directly on the issue of adding land to a principal residence.
But, IRS private ruling 8940061 notes, no rule or court case bears directly on the issue of adding land to a principal residence.the IRS has drawn a rationale from the sale of a home site split in two and sold in different years to the same buyer.
So the IRS has drawn a rationale from the sale of a home site split in two and sold in different years to the same buyer; a court let the seller in that old case treat this as the sale of one residence.the IRS says, the Blandings' $200,000 loan is home-acquisition debt, and interest on it is fully deductible.
Thus the Blandings' $200,000 loan is home-acquisition debt.interest on it is fully deductible.
Thus the Blandings' $200,000 loan is home-acquisition debt.interest on it is fully deductible.
REPORTS OF PAYMENTS to independent contractors for services must be filed by businesses.don't bet that contractors' unreported income will be detected that way.
A retired electrical engineer we'll call Ben works part-time as a consultant.he doesn't want to earn so much that Social Security reduces his benefits.
A retired electrical engineer we'll call Ben works part-time as a consultant, but he doesn't want to earn so much that Social Security reduces his benefits.he has arranged for a university foundation to set up a scholarship fund for undergraduate engineering students.
he would omit those fees from income reported on his return.he asked the IRS if the plan would work.
you still have controlled its disposition and enjoyed the fruits of your labor, even if indirectly.you assign your income to another.
you still have controlled its disposition and enjoyed the fruits of your labor.indirectly.
Ben earns any fees sent directly to charity and is taxable on them.of course, he may take a charitable deduction for them.
Reuben Mark, chief executive of Colgate-Palmolive, said advertisers lack detailed demographic and geographic breakdowns of magazines' audiences.The critics lambasted the magazine industry for something executives often are very proud of: the growth in magazine titles during the 1980s.
There's probably even a magazine for left-handed golfers.the general interest magazine is something we all miss, and it should come back.
but the general interest magazine is something we all miss.it should come back.
but the general interest magazine is something we all miss.it should come back.
Leonard Lauder, president and chief executive officer of Estee Lauder, said consumer magazines are suffering from what he called "niche-itis,"the increasing number of magazines that target the idosyncratic interests of readers.Mr. Lauder attacked what he sees as the wide imitation of Elle, a fashion magazine published by Diamandis Communications Inc., and criticized the practice of stacking ads at the front of magazines.
We spend a fortune on research information," said Steve Burzon, publisher of Meredith Corp. 's Metropolitan Home.Tina Brown, editor of Conde Nast Publications Inc. 's Vanity Fair, said advertisers are frequently asked to take advertising positions in the back of her magazine to relieve ad clutter. "But advertisers wouldn't think of it," she said.
advertisers are frequently asked to take advertising positions in the back of her magazine to relieve ad clutter.advertisers wouldn't think of it.
we sell more of our heavier issues.readers believe they are getting more for what they pay for.
The earnings were fine and above expectations.Salomon's stock fell $1.125 yesterday to close at $23.25 a share in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
October wasn't as good as the third quarter.they'll have difficulty matching the third quarter in the fourth quarter.
October wasn't as good as the third quarter.they'll have difficulty matching the third quarter in the fourth quarter.
I suspect October wasn't as good as the third quarter, and they'll have difficulty matching the third quarter in the fourth quarter," Mr. Blumstein said.some analysts say Salomon has turned the corner.
I upgraded the firm to my buy list.I certainly see signs of improvement.
In the first quarter, Salomon had a record loss of $28 million on revenue of $1.54 billion.in the second quarter, Salomon posted a record $253 million net on revenue of $2.33 billion.
Conference attendees are expected to be buzzing about the workings of the recently formed Resolution Trust Corp., a federal agency charged with disposing of an estimated $200 billion of real estate dumped in government hands by insolvent savings and loans.Developers are eyeing the real estate portfolios of major corporations.
Some plan to pursue foreign development ventures, mostly in Europe.other developers may shift from commercial to residential development in the U.S.
There aren't as many economically viable alternatives for real estate developers in this country as 10 years ago.developers are saying they will look into distressed properties.
They'll go into someone else's pasture.it's greener than the one they're in now.
Developers and money managers are looking for bargains among the thousands of financially troubled properties around the country Developers are also eyeing the real estate portfolios of major corporations..Some plan to pursue foreign development ventures, mostly in Europe..And other developers may shift from commercial to residential development in the U.S.Developers are forming more joint ventures with pension funds and insurance companies that can finance big projects.
The builders are more willing to give up some equity and rely on management and consulting fees to stay afloat in the soft market.Real estate firms are using their alliances with financial institutions to amass acquisition funds.
Why should you beat your brains out fighting the environmentalists, the neighborhood groups, dealing with traffic mitigation, sewers and fighting city hall.try to convince a lender to lend you money in an overbuilt market.
Why should you beat your brains out fighting the environmentalists, the neighborhood groups, dealing with traffic mitigation, sewers and fighting city hall, then try to convince a lender to lend you money in an overbuilt market.you can get pension fund money, buy a portfolio, sell off pieces off it and play your own game.
Why should you beat your brains out fighting the environmentalists, the neighborhood groups, dealing with traffic mitigation, sewers and fighting city hall, then try to convince a lender to lend you money in an overbuilt market when you can get pension fund money, buy a portfolio, sell off pieces off it and play your own game.that when it comes to distressed properties, finding diamonds in the rough isn't easy.
that finding diamonds in the rough isn't easy.it comes to distressed properties.
that when it comes to distressed properties, finding diamonds in the rough isn't easy.to succeed in the turnaround business developers may have to put in a lot of money and time.
the Sheraton-Pan Am venture will be the first joint-venture hotels in the Soviet Union to have as much as 50% foreign ownership.a Finnish group has a minority interest in an already operating Moscow hotel.
that have been announced.the Soviets began encouraging such undertakings in 1987.
U.S. companies account for less than 8% of the 1,000 or more Soviet joint ventures that have been announced since the Soviets began encouraging such undertakings in 1987.some U.S. companies are negotiating projects that could be among the biggest ones to be launched.
The Sheraton Moscow will charge about $140 to $150 a day for each of its rooms.it will accept payment only in currencies that can be traded in foreign exchange markets, according to a Sheraton executive.
David Shaffer was named to the new post of executive vice president of the Maxwell Macmillan group of this communications giant.Sheldon Aboff, formerly a vice president at Maxwell, was named group vice president with responsibility for various electronic and publishing-group companies.
Soichiro Honda's picture now hangs with Henry Ford's in the U.S. Automotive Hall of Fame.the game-show "Jeopardy" is soon to be Sony-owned.
Soichiro Honda's picture now hangs with Henry Ford's in the U.S. Automotive Hall of Fame, and the game-show "Jeopardy" is soon to be Sony-owned.no matter how much Japan gets under our skin, we'll still have mom and apple pie.
we'd still be in Paradise.the serpent had proffered one to Eve.
It certainly won't get there on looks.how sweet it is.
It doesn't look nice on the outside.getting mealy inside.
Now, even more radical changes seem afoot.the grand old maverick of American apples plays the role of Hiroshi Appleseed.
New apple trees grow slowly.the Red Delicious is almost as entrenched as mom.
The Delicious hegemony won't end anytime soon.the apple industry is ripe for change.
Red Delicious has been overplanted.its prices have dropped below the cost of production.
Red Delicious has been overplanted.its prices have dropped below the cost of production.
The scare over Alar, a growth regulator that makes apples redder and crunchier but may be carcinogenic, made consumers shy away from the Delicious.they were less affected than the McIntosh.
A lot of growers won't be around in a few years.they have stopped using Alar.
This is beautiful stuff.I'm going to lose $50,000 to $60,000 on it.
his $2,000 rented bees might buzz off to the neighbors' orchards instead of pollinating his.a grower beats them back.
they can protect themselves against the price vagaries of any one variety by diversifying -- into the recently imported Gala, a sweet New Zealand native; the Esopus Spitzenburg, reportedly Thomas Jefferson's favorite apple; disease-resistant kinds like the Liberty.growers can't always keep the worm from the apple.
They still buy apples mainly for big, red good looks.freshness counts more than it once did.
But freshness counts more than it once did.stores are expanding shelf space for unconventional, but tastier, and often pricier, apples.
But freshness counts more than it once did.stores are expanding shelf space for unconventional, but tastier, and often pricier, apples.
The Japanese apple market is very keyed to high quality.so apples are more of a delicacy there than a big food commodity.
The Japanese apple market is very keyed to high quality.and apples are more of a delicacy there than a big food commodity.
The Fuji is still small potatoes in the U.S., sold mainly in fruit boutiques.in California There's a Fuji apple cult.
they get hooked.somebody eats one.
that he could sell Fujis to Taiwan buyers at $40 a box.he had them.
that he could sell Fujis to Taiwan buyers at $40 a box if he had them.his first crop won't be picked till next year.
there was no longer a connection between grower and consumer.the chain stores took over.
After all, until the 1950s even the Red Delicious was a firm, delectable morsel.as growers bred them more for looks, and to satisfy supermarket chains' demands of long-term storage, the Red went into decline.
Then the Red went into decline.growers bred them more for looks, and to satisfy supermarket chains' demands of long-term storage.
but usually not good eating.They do deserve respect.
It ripens later than most apples.growing it in U.S. areas with chilly autumns may be tricky.
It ripens later than most apples, and growing it in U.S. areas with chilly autumns may be tricky.the frumpy Fuji must compete with an increasingly dolledup Delicious.
the "big boss" at a supermarket chain even rejected his Red Delicious recently.they weren't waxed and brushed for extra shine.
the "big boss" at a supermarket chain even rejected his Red Delicious recently because they weren't waxed and brushed for extra shine.he hadn't used hormones, which many growers employ to elongate their Delicious apples for greater eye appeal.
Moreover, the frumpy Fuji must compete with an increasingly dolledup Delicious.Grannies became popular without big, red looks, so why not Fujis.
From 1980 to 1988 the government issued $394 billion of new direct loans and an additional $756 billion of new primary loan guarantees.federal budget deficits totaled $1.41 trillion.
Federal credit programs date back to the New Deal, and were meant to break even financially.recent events indicate that federal credit is out of control.
Student loan defaults remain high at about 12%.the program has been rocked by allegations of fraud and mismanagement.
that defaults in Federal Housing Administration guarantees were five times as high as previously estimated.that FHA's equity fell to minus $2.9 billion.
GAO's findings are particularly troubling.the FHA has about $300 billion in obligations outstanding and had previously been considered one of the most financially secure credit programs.
the potential government losses are staggering.the programs continue their present path.
the principal causes of the current crisis are internal and generic to all programs.external events have contributed to the morass.
To reduce the risks.still retaining the legitimate benefits these programs can provide.
collecting the debt defeats the original goal.the program is meant to provide a subsidy.
If the program is meant to provide a subsidy, collecting the debt defeats the original goal.subsidized loans tend to turn into giveaway programs, with increasing subsidy and default rates over time.
government should issue credit.it intends to use every legal method to collect.
Thus, subsidized loans tend to turn into giveaway programs, with increasing subsidy and default rates over time.credit programs can be appropriate tools to improve the operation of capital markets.
In contrast, credit programs can be appropriate tools to improve the operation of capital markets.legal restrictions on interstate banking once inhibited the supply of credit to the agricultural sector..Farm lending was enacted to correct this problem by providing a reliable flow of lendable funds.
In contrast, credit programs can be appropriate tools to improve the operation of capital markets.this in no way justifies the huge government subsidies and losses on such loans.
There is a fundamental conflict between providing a subsidy and maintaining the integrity of a credit program..If the program is meant to provide a subsidy, collecting the debt defeats the original goal.student loans currently attempt to subsidize college attendance and mitigate problems created by the fact that students' future earnings are not accepted as collateral..The program provides highly subsidized loans to any student whose family earns less than a particular amount..High default rates, a low interest rate, and government coverage of all interest costs while the student is in school make program costs extremely high..Families that do not need the loan can make money simply by putting the loan in the bank and paying it back when the student graduates.
and government coverage of all interest costs.the student is in school.
paying it back.the student graduates.
The program provides highly subsidized loans to any student whose family earns less than a particular amount.a student loan program that was meant solely to correct capital-market imperfections would allow loans for any student, regardless of family income, at market or near-market rates.
interest costs would either be paid by the student or added to the loan balance.the student was in school.
Reducing those rates moderately (say, to 75%) would still provide substantial assistance to borrowers.it would also encourage lenders to choose more creditworthy customers, and go a long way toward reducing defaults.
Reducing those rates moderately (say, to 75%) would still provide substantial assistance to borrowers.But it would encourage lenders to choose more creditworthy customers, and go a long way toward reducing defaults.
But it would also encourage lenders to choose more creditworthy customers, and go a long way toward reducing defaults.the Small Business Administration has had reasonable success in reducing both guarantee rates and default rates in its Preferred Lenders' Program.
the costs to the borrower of defaulting are usually low.the government has a dismal record of collecting bad debts.
Since the government has a dismal record of collecting bad debts, the costs to the borrower of defaulting are usually low.it is often possible to obtain a new government loan even if existing debts are not paid off.
In addition, it is often possible to obtain a new government loan.existing debts are not paid off.
In addition, it is often possible to obtain a new government loan.existing debts are not paid off.
a new $1 direct loan is treated as a $1 expenditure.the budget measures cash flow.
a new $1 direct loan is treated as a $1 expenditure.at least part of the loan will be paid back.
Loan guarantees don't appear at all.the borrower defaults.
Loan guarantees don't appear at all until the borrower defaults.new guarantees do not raise the deficit.
so new guarantees do not raise the deficit.they create future liabilities for the government.
Predictably, guarantees outstanding have risen by $130 billion since 1985.direct loans outstanding have fallen by $30 billion.
Neither technique is perfect.both are better than the current system.
Mr. Bush has long campaigned for passage of a bill or a constitutional amendment that would explicitly give him a line-item veto, which would enable him to kill individual items in a big spending bill without having to kill the entire bill.some analysts, particularly conservative legal scholars, have urged Mr. Bush not to wait for explicit authorization but simply to assert that the Constitution already implicitly gives him the power to exercise a line-item veto.
Mr. Bush is "interested" in finding a suitable test case.that exercising a test line-item veto isn't a "top initiative" on the president's agenda because he faces more-pressing budget issues at the moment.
White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said Mr. Bush is "interested" in finding a suitable test case.But he said that exercising a test line-item veto isn't a "top initiative" on the president's agenda because he faces more-pressing budget issues at the moment.
that exercising a test line-item veto isn't a "top initiative" on the president's agenda.he faces more-pressing budget issues at the moment.
The proposal reiterates the U.S. desire to scrap or reduce a host of trade-distorting subsidies on farm products.it would allow considerable flexibility in determining how and when these goals would be achieved.
But it would allow considerable flexibility in determining how and when these goals would be achieved.The U.S. plan would ease the transition to freer agriculture trade by allowing some countries to convert non-tariff barriers into tariffs that, together with existing tariffs, then would be phased out over 10 years.
to convert non-tariff barriers into tariffs.that, together with existing tariffs would be phased out over 10 years.
to reach agreement on new trade rules.their current negotiating round concludes in December 1990.
Unlike the earlier U.S. farm-trade proposal which struck European countries as too extreme, the latest plan would provide some room for maneuver.the new U.S. package makes clear there would be a transition period during which GATT members could use a combination of tariffs and quotas to cushion their farmers from foreign competition.
For instance, the new U.S. package makes clear there would be a transition period during which GATT members could use a combination of tariffs and quotas to cushion their farmers from foreign competition.It says countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports.
countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products.they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports.
Less objectionable ones would be subject only to some restraints.others with a "relatively minor trade impact" would be allowed to continue under certain conditions.
For instance, the new U.S. package makes clear there would be a transition period during which GATT members could use a combination of tariffs and quotas to cushion their farmers from foreign competition..It also says countries could temporarily raise tariffs on certain products if they experience an unusually heavy volume of imports the new package calls for the elimination of only the most tradedistorting ones..Less objectionable ones would be subject only to some restraints, and others with a "relatively minor trade impact" would be allowed to continue under certain conditions.The new U.S. plan would establish procedures to prevent countries from using health and sanitation rules to impede trade arbitrarily.
P&G's U.S. shipments were up just 1%.the company decided to shift more promotions and sales for health and beauty products to the fiscal second quarter.
P&G's U.S. shipments were up just 1%, partly because the company decided to shift more promotions and sales for health and beauty products to the fiscal second quarter.slowing growth in the U.S. were lackluster results for P&G's cooking oils.
Lynne Hyman, vice president of equity research for First Boston Corp., expects P&G to post net of about $4.20 a share, on a post-split basis.I'm recognizing there's a good chance they'll do a bit better than that.
this company will earn $6 or $7 a share in a few years.he does to the domestic operations what he did internationally.
few municipal and state government plans achieve preclearance by the Justice Department or survive the scrutiny of the lower federal courts unless they carve out as many solidly minority districts as possible.Section 2 of the act expressly disclaims requiring that minorities win a proportional share of elective offices.
few municipal and state government plans achieve preclearance by the Justice Department or survive the scrutiny of the lower federal courts.they carve out as many solidly minority districts as possible.
The new goal of the Voting Rights Act -- more minorities in political office -- is laudable.racial gerrymandering is not the best way to accomplish that essential goal.
that only a black politician can speak for a black person.that only a white politician can govern on behalf of a white one.
every other municipality and state in the country will face this issue.they reapportion their districts after the 1990 census.
Sometime in 1991 a redistricting panel will redraw the City Council district lines.the 1990 census becomes available.
that whites were not fully and fairly represented.in city-wide elections only black candidates or white candidates who catered to "black interests" could win.
No federal court has ruled that the Voting Rights Act protects a white minority.in June the Justice Department approved a districting plan for Birmingham that carves out three white-majority districts and six black-majority districts.
In the past, people who had to run for office had to moderate their views.they couldn't afford to offend blacks or whites.
Two hundred years ago, critics of the new United States Constitution warned that the electoral districts for Congress were too large and encompassed too many different economic interests.James Madison refuted that argument in one of the most celebrated political treatises ever written, No. 10 of the Federalist Papers.
Large, heterogeneous election districts would encourage good government.a representative would be compelled to serve the interests of all his constituents and be servile to none.
our political map should reflect our belief.we believe that all Americans, of every race and ethnic background, have common interests and can live together cooperatively.
our political map should reflect our belief.we believe that all Americans, of every race and ethnic background, have common interests and can live together cooperatively.
in order to preserve all forfeitable assets.the trial is completed and judgment entered.
until the trial is completed.judgment entered.
the prosecutor is required, at the earliest appropriate time, to state publicly that the government's request for a TRO, and eventual forfeiture, is made in full recognition of the rights of third parties.a RICO TRO is being sought.
the prosecutor is required, at the earliest appropriate time, to state publicly that the government's request for a TRO, and eventual forfeiture, is made in full recognition of the rights of third parties.a RICO TRO is being sought.
Sales of North American-built cars and trucks plunged 20.5% in mid-October from a year earlier.domestic manufacturers paid the price for heavy incentives earlier this year.
GM's car sales dropped 24.8% in mid-October to 69,980.truck sales fell 26% to 37,860.
GM's car sales dropped 24.8% in mid-October to 69,980, while truck sales fell 26% to 37,860.GM had dismal results in the first 10 days of the month.
GM also had dismal results in the first 10 days of the month.other auto makers reported mixed results.
while other auto makers reported mixed results.All of the Big Three suffered in the just-ended period.
All of the Big Three suffered in the just-ended period, however, with sales of all domestically made cars, including those built at Japanese-managed plants, falling 19% to 158,863 from a year earlier.Sales of domestically made trucks continued to be sluggish in mid-October, dropping 22.8% to 94,543 from a year ago.
The Big Three auto makers already have slashed fourth-quarter production plans 10.4% below year-ago levels.that may not be enough to prevent inventories from ballooning if sales don't improve.
but that may not be enough to prevent inventories from ballooning.sales don't improve.
that domestic auto makers will have a 93-day supply of cars at the end of the year.car sales improve to a 6.5 million vehicle rate for the quarter.
Business had been fairly strong.Hurricane Hugo hit the area.
GM's car sales dropped 24.8% in mid-October to 69,980, while truck sales fell 26% to 37,860 Ford Motor Co. reported a 21.2% drop in sales of domestic-made cars to 46,995 and a 24.2% drop in domestic trucks to 31,143.Chrysler Corp. hit the rocks in mid-October.
Honda Motor Co., which continues to have short supplies of domestically made Accords, saw its sales of North American-built cars fall 14.1% to 8,355.sales of domestic cars and trucks at Nissan Motor Corp. rose 26.1% to 5,651.
the Nasdaq composite index slid 3%.the New York Stock Exchange tumbled 7%.
the Nasdaq composite did continue to fall for two days after the initial plunge.the short interest figures reported by brokerage and securities clearing firms to the National Association of Securities Dealers include only those trades completed, or settled, by Oct. 13, rather than trades that occurred on that day, according to Gene Finn, chief economist for the NASD.
by selling borrowed shares.that are to be replaced.
by selling borrowed shares.bought.
Intel's short interest jumped 42%.Campeau's increased 62%.
Intel makes semiconductors.Campeau operates department-store chains.
Shorted shares must eventually be replaced through buying.changes in short interest in some stocks may be caused by arbitrage.
In addition, changes in short interest in some stocks may be caused by arbitrage.an investor may seek to profit during some takeover situations by buying stock in one company involved and shorting the stock of the other.
What defeated General Aoun was not only the weight of the Syrian army.The weight of Lebanon's history was against him.
The weight of Lebanon's history was also against him.it is a history Israel is in danger of repeating.
Like Lebanon, and however unfairly, Israel is regarded by the Arab world as a colonial aberration..Its best hope of acceptance by its neighbours lies in reaching a settlement with the Palestinians..Like Lebanon, Israel is being remade by demography..In Greater Israel more than half the children under six are Muslims..Within 25 years Jews will probably be the minority.Israel will neither share power with all these Arabs nor redraw its borders closer to its pre-1967 Jewish heartland.
Jerusalem will become Belfast.it becomes Beirut.
Unlike the Maronites, Israel's Jews will not let themselves become the weakest force in a system of private armies; Jerusalem will become Belfast before it becomes Beirut.that is not much of a consolation to draw from the failure of General Aoun.
who watched the Nasdaq Composite Index tumble in sympathy with the Dow Jones Industrial Average.and saw it get left behind in the subsequent rally.
After plummeting 1.8% at one point during the day, the composite rebounded a little, but finished down 5.52, at 461.70.the industrial average recovered almost completely from its skid and closed down 0.1%.
Microsoft, battered by profit taking in recent sessions, sank as much as 4.it finished at 80 7/8, down 2 1/4 on volume of one million shares.
Apple Computer improved 7/8 to 47 5/8; Intel slipped 1/4 to 33 1/4.Valley National Corp. was up 1/8 to 15 1/8.
The market started with several strikes against it.the computer-guided selling in response to those developments dealt a serious blow to the over-the-counter market.
when the market does recover, the damage is done and it leaves Nasdaq down more than the Big Board.the over-the-counter market usually doesn't fall by as much as listed stocks during program-selling blitzes.
the damage is done and it leaves Nasdaq down more than the Big Board.the market does recover.
when the market does recover, the damage is done.it leaves Nasdaq down more than the Big Board.
But the computer-guided selling in response to those developments dealt a serious blow to the over-the-counter market.that the sharp swings in stock prices lately is scaring away retail and foreign investors.
the firm does execute orders for clients involved in the buying and selling of shares tied to movements in certain stock indexes.Shearson doesn't do computer-guided program trading for its own account.
they are forced to assume.prices swing so drastically.
they are forced to assume.prices swing so drastically.
to maintain orderly trading.imbalances occur.
that on days when prices are tumbling and sellers abound they must be willing to buy shares from sellers.no one else will.
That means that on days when prices are tumbling and sellers abound they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will.the recent volatility in stock prices caused by the program trading has made some market makers less willing to soak up the stocks that are for sale.
they aren't comfortable carrying big positions in stocks.they realize prices can tumble quickly.
that "there's no sense in sticking your nose out because you're an instant loser.that sell programs kick in.
that "there's no sense in sticking your nose out because you're an instant loser.that sell programs kick in.
that "there's no sense in sticking your nose out.you're an instant loser.
it will make a $6-a-share offer for the remaining Kinder-Care Learning Center common stock.it acquires a majority of the company's shares in a pending rights offering by Kinder-Care Learning Center's parent, Kinder-Care Inc.
Kinder-Care Learning Centers added 1/4 to 4 7/8 on 461,200 shares.Shares of KinderCare Inc. closed at 3 1/2, up 1/4, on volume of 700,000.
losses from the Oct. 17 earthquake in California haven't yet been determined.that it provides earthquake coverage to about 1,400 properties in the stricken area.
IBM is reviewing its entire business-partners program.that it was in talks with the company about possible modifications to its current IBM-remarketer contract.
Whether the installation is for early warning or space track, it clearly is not deployed.we judge it to be not a violation of the ABM treaty at this time.
We're happy, we guess, to receive confirmation of the Krasnoyarsk violation from the Soviets.we started writing about it.
the Soviet government has recognized it has a credibility problem.it bids for new agreements, new loans and indeed admission to the civilized world.
the Soviet government has recognized it has a credibility problem.after 70 years, it is confessing the obvious, hoping to be believed about other things.
they need to start telling the truth about more than the totally obvious.the Soviets want to be believed.
The Pentagon's recently issued "Soviet Military Power repeated the Sverdlovsk assessment.in general adopting a softer line.
The Pentagon's recently issued "Soviet Military Power," though in general adopting a softer line, repeated the Sverdlovsk assessment.It was detailed in Congressional testimony this past February: An explosion at the Microbiology and Virology Institute in Sverdlovsk released anthrax germs that caused a significant number of deaths.
the Soviet Union's official position remains that the anthrax deaths were caused by tainted meat.Mr. Shevardnadze did not address this topic before the Supreme Soviet.
We doubt this claim just as we doubted Mr. Shevardnadze's assurance last year that Krasnoyarsk didn't violate the ABM treaty.just as we did not believe the tendentious claims of the Congressmen and arms-control advocates who visited Krasnoyarsk, we are in no way persuaded by the assent to the tainted-meat theory by a U.S. team of scientists who met with Soviet counterparts in Washington last year.
We don't believe it.we certainly do not believe that Mr. Gorbachev or any of his emissaries yet deserve to have the West take their word for it.
Biological weapons violations have figured little in political debate, and indeed have not been pressed vigorously enough by the U.S. government.the stated U.S. position is detailed and specific, and the prospect of biological warfare is profoundly chilling.
But the stated U.S. position is detailed and specific.the prospect of biological warfare is profoundly chilling.
that would allow them to acknowledge that Sverdlovsk violated the 1972 agreement.or that would give U.S. specialists reasonable confidence that this was a wholly civilian accident.
glasnost cannot begin to deserve the kind of credibility Mr. Shevardnadze was bidding for with his confessions on Monday.that happens.
that the two are discussing the proposal.a decision hasn't been made.
The trust owns 7.2 million of the Series A convertible preferred shares, which are each convertible into 10 Manville common shares.The trust owns half of Manville's 48 million common shares outstanding.
In addition to the stock and 20% of Manville's profits beginning in 1992, the trust is supposed to receive $2.5 billion over its 27-year life.it initially was funded with about $765 million and may soon face a cash crunch.
As of June 30, it had settled about 15,000 of 81,000 claims filed.its unpaid claims totaled $136 million, a large portion of its $268 million in cash and marketable securities.
the trust might also want to diversify its holdings.most of its assets are tied to Manville, a forest and building products concern.
A Manville spokesman wouldn't elaborate on the proposed changes.he said they are "to a large degree, housekeeping," although some may generate some disagreement.
they are "to a large degree, housekeeping.some may generate some disagreement.
the shares issued to the trust were intended to be sold, as needed.that Manville has the right of first refusal to buy those shares.
A hearing is set for Nov. 15.participants don't expect a resolution until July 1990.
Secured creditors would recover both principal and interest.unsecured creditors would receive only principal and interest accrued before PS of New Hampshire filed for Bankruptcy Code protection in January.
accrued.PS of New Hampshire filed for Bankruptcy Code protection in January.
Under the new Northeast Utilities plan, it would pay $1.65 billion in cash to creditors and assume $100 million in pollution control bonds..Secured creditors would recover both principal and interest, while unsecured creditors would receive only principal and interest accrued before PS of New Hampshire filed for Bankruptcy Code protection in January Assuming full operation of the Seabrook nuclear power plant, which is completed but isn't yet operating, equity holders would receive up to $500 million in cash, preferred stock and new 10-year Seabrook bonds.Northeast promised the State of New Hampshire that rate increases would be limited to 5.5% annually for seven years.
Tons of delectably rotting potatoes, barley and wheat will fill damp barns across the land.thousands of farmers turn the state's buyers away.
Tons of delectably rotting potatoes, barley and wheat will fill damp barns across the land as thousands of farmers turn the state's buyers away.Many a piglet won't be born.
Many a piglet won't be born as a result.many a ham will never hang in a butcher shop.
Tons of delectably rotting potatoes, barley and wheat will fill damp barns across the land as thousands of farmers turn the state's buyers away.with inflation raging, grain in the barn will still be a safer bet for the private farmer than money in the bank.
even Solidarity's sympathetic new government won't win him over.his labor can produce a profit in this dying and distorted system.
waiting for July's usual state-directed price rises.The Communists froze prices.
The farmers ran a boycott.meat disappeared from the shops.
The farmers ran a boycott.meat disappeared from the shops.
On Aug. 1, the state tore up its controls.food prices leaped.
On Aug. 1, the state tore up its controls.food prices leaped.
That was when the tame old Peasants' Party, desperate to live through the crisis, broke ranks with the Communists and joined with Solidarity in the East Bloc's first liberated government.by the time Solidarity took office in September, the damage was done.
Of course it's better to sell private," he says.the butcher trundles away.
He won't for long.his old state sources of rye and potatoes are drying up.
State monopolies will keep on stifling trade, "free" prices or not.something else replaces them.
Building them now will require undergirding from the West, and removal of political deadwood, a job that Solidarity has barely started.Polish agriculture does possess one great asset already: the private farmer.
There are a lot of them.they have property.
As the Chinese have shown.the Soviets are learning.
Try as they might, the Communists could neither replace nor break him.they did try.
Until 1963, it was good soil.the state put in a reservoir to supply the area with drinking water.
Mr Pyszkiewicz smiles.his brow furrows.
They started.and abandoned it.
I couldn't buy what I need.I had a lot of money.
They use 60% more fertilizer per acre, twice the high-grade feed.their best boast is that they produce 32% of Polish pork.
I've heard from friends that state farms are subsidized," Mr. Pyszkiewicz says.his wife, Wieslawa, sets some chairs out in the sun.
The state quit shoving peasants onto its subsidized farms over 30 years ago.it never did let up on the pressure.
The pension's size still depends on how much produce he sells the state.His allotment of materials did.
His allotment of materials also did.the state couldn't hold up its end of that bargain.
until the state couldn't hold up its end of that bargain.the state alone sells seeds and machines.
it often hands them over only in exchange for milk or grain.supplies are short.
it often hands them over only in exchange for milk or grain.supplies are short.
Some men stay, their best friend a bottle of vodka.two million acres have gone fallow.
Without machines, good farms can't get bigger.the potato crop, once 47 million tons, is down to 35 million.
a food revolution will make Solidarity.a food crisis undid the Communists.
Vegetables are abundant and full of flavor in Poland, the pickles and sauerkraut sublime, the state monopolies long broken.Grain, milk and meat come.
Vegetables are abundant and full of flavor in Poland, the pickles and sauerkraut sublime, the state monopolies long broken.Grain, milk and meat come.
A private challenge to the monolithic tractor industry will take more time and money than Poland can spare.a smokehouse or a local dairy can spring up fast.
I hire transportation.my customers have fresh cold cuts every day.
I hire transportation.my customers have fresh cold cuts every day.
I bring my prices down.nobody buys.
He has bought some trendy Western clothes, and a green Mercedes with an American flag in the window.the meat-processing machines he picked up are 50 years old.
I'll get stuck with them.the situation changes.
Rural Solidarity objected, to no avail.Solidarity leader Lech Walesa accepted the Peasants' support.
Next Spring, the two will battle in local elections.until then, and probably long afterward, the Communists' apparat of obstruction -- from the head of the dairy co-op to the village bank manager -- will stay planted in the Polish countryside.
Not even a tractor.you want to make wicker baskets, too.
The farmer leaves.the naczelnik shuts his door.
The 321-99 roll call vote reflected broad support for the disaster assistance.the cost to the Treasury is sure to aggravate budget pressures this year and next under the Gramm-Rudman deficit reduction law.
By a lopsided 401-18 margin, the chamber rejected an effort to waive Gramm-Rudman for purposes of addressing the two disasters.budget analysts estimate the increased appropriations will widen the fiscal 1990 deficit by at least $1.44 billion unless offsetting spending cuts or new revenues are found by Congress.
the increased appropriations will widen the fiscal 1990 deficit by at least $1.44 billion.offsetting spending cuts or new revenues are found by Congress.
The budget impact will be greater still in fiscal 1991.the issue forced a confrontation between the Appropriations Committee leadership and Budget Committee Chairman Leon Panetta, whose California district was at the center of the earthquake last week.
Because of the vagaries of Gramm-Rudman, the immediate impact is relatively small.the appropriations set in motion spending that adds to an already grim budget picture for fiscal 1991.
Within the appropriations process, the situation is even more difficult.the costs will be counted against the share of funds to be allocated to those subcommittees that recently have had the greatest difficulty in staying within the budget.
The underlying bill approved yesterday is required to keep the government operating past midnight tonight.this urgency has contributed to the speed -- and, critics say, mistakes -- that have accompanied the package of disaster assistance.
The hastily drafted measure could hurt California by requiring it to put up more matching funds for emergency highway assistance than otherwise would be required.the state's delegation is fearful that the new funding will be counted against a separate $185 million in federal highway funds it would expect to receive under its normal allocation this year.
And the state's delegation is fearful that the new funding will be counted against a separate $185 million in federal highway funds it would expect to receive under its normal allocation this year.the high price of San Francisco real estate puts the state at odds with federal regulations more attuned to the national average.
Also, the high price of San Francisco real estate puts the state at odds with federal regulations more attuned to the national average.disaster loans, which will go to small businesses and homeowners, offer credit as low as 4% in some cases.
For example, disaster loans, which will go to small businesses and homeowners, offer credit as low as 4% in some cases.the San Francisco delegation finds itself asking that the cap per household be lifted to $500,000 from $100,000 to assist the hard hit but often wealthy Marina district.
The Senate is expected to make some modifications today.both the White House and Congress appear most anxious to speed final approval before tonight's deadline.
Administration pressure discourages any effort to add to total funding.the Senate changes are expected to be largely technical.
Yesterday's floor action came.a House-Senate conference approved a nearly $8.5 billion fiscal 1990 military construction bill.
An estimated $25.8 million is allocated to continue work in Oman.all funding is cut for the Philippines, and projects in South Korea are cut to $13.6 million, or less than a sixth of the administration's request.
But all funding is cut for the Philippines.projects in South Korea are cut to $13.6 million, or less than a sixth of the administration's request.
An estimated $38.9 million was set aside for military installations in the home state of North Carolina Rep. W.G. Hefner, the House chairman.$70.2 million would go to projects in Tennessee represented by his Senate counterpart and fellow Democrat, Sen. James Sasser.
Texas and California are traditionally powerful within the conference.equally striking is the dominance of Alaska, Pennsylvania and West Virginia because of their power elsewhere in the appropriations process.
In the final trading, the House was insistent on setting aside $500 million to carry out base closings ordered to begin in fiscal 1990.it gave ground to Mr. Inouye on a number of projects, ranging from a $11 million parking garage here, to a land transfer in Hawaii, to a provision to assist the Makwah Indian Tribe in Washington state.
The House approved a short-term spending bill to keep the government operating through Nov. 15 and provide $2.85 billion in emergency funds to assist in the recovery from Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake as a House-Senate conference approved a nearly $8.5 billion fiscal 1990 military construction bill, representing a 5% reduction from last year and making severe cuts from Pentagon requests for installations abroad.House-Senate negotiators have tentatively agreed on a $3.18 billion anti-drug and anti-crime intitiative, cutting other federal spending 0.43% to pay for it.
The size of the cuts isn't known.they'll be centered in the exploration and production division, which is responsible for locating oil reserves, drilling wells and pumping crude oil and natural gas.
domestic exploration and production operations had a $16 million loss in the third quarter.comparable foreign operations earned $234 million.
that a reference to the cutbacks was included in the earnings report.workers were notified.
Some will likely be offered severance packages.others will be transferred to overseas operations.
not to seek forfeitures.there are "less intrusive" alternatives, such as bonds.
It was forced into liquidation before trial.investors yanked their funds after the government demanded a huge pre-trial asset forfeiture.
when investors yanked their funds.the government demanded a huge pre-trial asset forfeiture.
The experience of Princeton/Newport and initiation of other RICO-forfeiture cases against legitimate businesses taught Drexel that a RICOed investment bank would be an ex-investment bank.Drexel agreed instead to an arrangement allowing it to plea to charges "which the company is not in a position to dispute" because of RICO.
that a RICOed investment bank would be an ex-investment bank.Drexel therefore agreed to an arrangement allowing it to plea to charges "which the company is not in a position to dispute" because of RICO.
Drexel therefore agreed instead to an arrangement allowing it to plea to charges "which the company is not in a position to dispute" because of RICO.after all the prosecutorial hoopla no one has established what, if anything, Drexel did wrong.
Justice has finally recognized its employees' abuses, thanks largely to the demands for reform by former U.S. attorney in Washington Joseph diGenova, who wants to salvage RICO for real criminals.prosecutorial guidelines are effective only if someone at Justice is willing and able to supervise hyperactive prosecutors.
But prosecutorial guidelines are effective.someone at Justice is willing and able to supervise hyperactive prosecutors.
ours is supposed to be "a government of laws not of men.yet RICO defenders "tell us that we should rely on prosecutorial discretion to protect against overbreadth of RICO.
ours is supposed to be "a government of laws not of men.and RICO defenders "tell us that we should rely on prosecutorial discretion to protect against overbreadth of RICO.
it is slated for fine-tuning.the half-hour situation comedy seen Mondays at 9:30 p.m. Eastern and Pacific time isn't a candidate for cancellation.
Although the half-hour situation comedy seen Mondays at 9:30 p.m. Eastern and Pacific time isn't a candidate for cancellation, it is slated for fine-tuning.by next week the network may announce "Teddy Z" is moving to 8:30 p.m. from its 9:30 time slot, replacing "The People Next Door," which became the first network show to be canceled this season.
Teddy Z" was boosted by favorable reviews and a network-wide promotional tie-in contest with K mart Corp..It was promoted on cable services, including MTV, Nick at Night and VH-1, and premiered as the No. 22-rated show for the week.five weeks after the premiere, the series has floundered.
Worse, every week it suffers audience drop-off from "Murphy Brown.viewership on CBS picks up again once "Teddy Z" is over and is followed by "Designing Women.
and viewership on CBS picks up again.Teddy Z" is over and is followed by "Designing Women.
Last week, "Murphy Brown" was viewed by 14.1% of the available television households.the number dropped to 12.6% for "Teddy Z" and rose to 14.2% for "Designing Women.
Teddy Z" is moving to 8:30 p.m. from its 9:30 time slot.the program is slated to undergo some plot changes.
CBS executives said the program is also slated to undergo some plot changes.Creator Hugh Wilson included the lead character's Greek family in the cast, "but that is not the right focus anymore Instead, CBS hopes the show will increasingly highlight the talent agency and the business of being an agent t.
Creator Hugh Wilson, for example, included the lead character's Greek family in the cast.that is not the right focus anymore.
but that is not the right focus anymore.the show will increasingly highlight the talent agency and the business of being an agent.
We're making adjustments on the show, yes, but nothing radical.we hope to keep a balance between the office and the family.
Prices of long-term Treasury bonds moved inversely to the stock market.investors sought safety amid growing evidence the economy is weakening.
Prices of long-term Treasury bonds moved inversely to the stock market as investors sought safety amid growing evidence the economy is weakening.the shaky economic outlook and the volatile stock market forced the dollar lower against major currencies.
bond prices retreated.the stock market recovered some of its losses later in the day.
As the stock market recovered some of its losses later in the day, bond prices retreated.the combination of a second consecutive decline in monthly durable-goods orders and lackluster mid-October auto sales helped prop up the Treasury market.
On the surface, the decline in September durable goods -- only 0.1% -- didn't appear very weak.orders for non-defense capital goods, a precursor of future plant and equipment spending, were off 5.6% after falling 10.3% in August.
But orders for non-defense capital goods, a precursor of future plant and equipment spending, were off 5.6%.falling 10.3% in August.
reports like those yesterday help build the case for lower rates.analysts don't expect the Federal Reserve to ease credit policy soon.
The stock market's precipitous drop frightened foreign investors, who quickly bid the dollar lower.as stock prices recovered some of the early losses, so did the U.S. currency.
But so did the U.S. currency.stock prices recovered some of the early losses.
the dollar ended down only modestly.investors are becoming more bearish toward the dollar in the wake of the stock market's recent troubles and as the U.S. economy weakens.
investors are becoming more bearish toward the dollar in the wake of the stock market's recent troubles.and the U.S. economy weakens.
Judge Robert ("Maximum Bob") Potter sentenced Jim Bakker to 45 years in the big house yesterday.a Beverly Hills judge tucked away Zsa Zsa Gabor for three days, plus 120 hours of work with homeless women.
Currently, Boeing has a backlog of about $80 billion.production has been slowed by a strike of 55,000 machinists.
she sprinkled her with high E flats, sparkling Ds, clean trills, and coloratura ornaments silvery as magic dust.the good fairy assigned to Slovakia hovered over the cradle of Edita Gruberova many years ago in Bratislava.
It isn't every day that we hear a Violetta who can sing the first act's high-flying music with all the little notes perfectly pitched and neatly stitched together..Never once did she gasp for air or mop her brow..She was as cool as a cucumber.things are not going well for Violetta.
She has TB, after all, and a weak-kneed lover.though a successful courtesan, she is just about overdrawn at the bank.
her salon began sliding around the stage.Ms. Gruberova sat down away from her guests to cough in private.
Worse, her walls move all the time -- at least in this production.her country hideaway has a very active set of drapes.
Hold on to those funny braids! you wanted to caution her.the sets started to roll around once more.
Normally, Violetta can go about her business without wondering whether she is moving as gracefully as the scenery.this is a production designed and directed by Franco Zeffirelli and paid for by Sybil Harrington, who has no need to count her pennies, unlike Violetta, down to 20 louis at the opera's end.
the company can still sell tickets to his "Boheme" and "Turandot" and boom out recordings (of another era).a strike ever hits the Met.
Maybe Mr. Z. was too busy taming his set to work with his naturally ungainly Alfredo.that Mr. Z. is getting a little tired of "Traviata.
This is the same production already seen in Paris and Florence.its scenic ideas echo the movie he made with Placido Domingo and Teresa Stratas.
rising deliriously.then she remembers the great parties she used to throw.
In an invention that drives Verdi purists bananas, Violetta lies dying in bed during the prelude.when she remembers the great parties she used to throw.
Given the prelude's thematic connections with the music preceding the last act, the idea is more worn than bad.as luck would have it, for a change there actually was a conductor in the pit whom we wanted to hear, Carlos Kleiber, trying to make memorable music while we all waited for the bed lump to stir into song.
trying to make memorable music.we all waited for the bed lump to stir into song.
the big-souled German maestro with the shaky nerves offered a limpid, flowing performance that in its unswagged and unswaggering approach was totally at odds with the staging.she did so.
Of heart-pounding moments there were nearly none.whether this has to do with Mr. Kleiber or the wooden cast is hard to say.
the Met's next-door neighbor, the New York City Opera, has canceled its season.failing to reach a settlement with its musicians.
it is nearly impossible to recapture subscribers.they have had time to ponder their entertainment choices.
it is nearly impossible to recapture subscribers once they have had time to ponder their entertainment choices.I was perfectly happy at Avery Fisher Hall the other day listening to Helmuth Rilling conduct the Messa per Rossini, a strange piece written by 13 different Italian composers to honor Rossini after his death in 1868.
For all that, the piece landed unperformed in a dusty archive.Bologna refused to supply a chorus and orchestra.
For all that, the piece landed unperformed in a dusty archive.Bologna refused to supply a chorus and orchestra.
Verdi's own contribution was mighty impressive.the operatic "Libera me" was reworked for the Manzoni Requiem.
His melodious "Confutatis" was smoothly sung by bass Brian Matthews.Teodulo Mabellini's "Lux aeterna" was intriguingly scored and splendidly put across by Mr. Rilling.
The Tokyo International Film Festival was no match for the Cannes Film Festival in terms of prestige.it made its mark.
At this year's event, the third since the festival got under way in 1985, Idrissa Ouedraogo of Burkina Faso won the Sakura Gold prize of $143,000 for "Yaaba" ("Old Woman.Cannes now gives $39,000 to the winner of its young director's award.
No one makes deals.most of the films have been seen before at other festivals.
who demand the delivery of their securities.they buy shares or domestic bonds.
it is thought that many small investors in Belgium store securities privately.no figures exist.
This is the first time for Japan to extend aid of this kind to Eastern European countries.we decide to do so.
Japan is considering giving aid to Hungary and Poland to support their recent political reforms.Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu is studying the possibility of a visit to the two Eastern bloc nations and to Western Europe next January.
Under an agreement signed last June, the Soviets will help Iran in oil exploration and other areas in return for exports of Iranian natural gas.in Paris, Mahmoud Vaezi, Iran's vice minister of foreign affairs, began a five-day visit to discuss such matters as compensation to French enterprises for contracts broken by the Khomeini regime.
the toilet not only tests blood pressure, pulse and urine.it stores the data for up to 130 days.
special agents have arrested more than 6,000 federal employees on charges ranging from extortion to tax evasion.Mexican President Carlos Salinas de Gortari took office last December.
The rest will probably not be recoverable.either the statute of limitations expired.
either because the statute of limitations expired.because many prefer to spend additional time in jail rather than return the money.
The rest will probably not be recoverable.or many prefer to spend additional time in jail rather than return the money.
that we have concluded it is prudent to plan for next year on the assumption that revenue again will be flat.reviewing its order prospects.
Cray made its announcement.the stock market closed.
Despite health-care cost controls and programs to hold down inventory, the professional division, which makes products including sutures and surgical stapling equipment, "achieved solid growth.domestic consumer sales slipped 1.2% for the quarter, to $490 million from $496 million.
the company's sales pace has been picking up.the effect of unfavorable exchange rates has been easing -- a pattern continuing this quarter.
Mr. Lothson of PaineWebber said the company's sales pace has been picking up largely because the effect of unfavorable exchange rates has been easing -- a pattern continuing this quarter.He cautioned that a "tough tax-rate comparison" may slow the company's earnings growth for the current quarter.
the results show how sensitive the multinationals can be to developments in a single country such as Brazil.the third period contained no major surprises.
While the third period contained no major surprises, Mr. Lothson said, the results show how sensitive the multinationals can be to developments in a single country such as Brazil.He questioned whether recent gains in that country can be sustained.
One of Dun & Bradstreet's chief businesses is compiling reports that rate the credit-worthiness of millions of American companies.It owns Moody's Investors Service, which assigns credit-ratings to bonds and preferred stock; A.C. Nielsen, known for its data on television-viewing patterns, and Yellow-pages publisher Donnelley.
Net income rose to 83 cents a share from 72 cents a share the year-earlier period.analysts focused more on the drop in revenue, to $1.04 billion from $1.07 billion, reflecting in part a continuing drop in sales of the controversial credit-reporting services.
that investors with short-term horizons should avoid Dun & Bradstreet stock.it is unlikely to outperform the market.
Insider selling is not unusual at Dun & Bradstreet.the recent pace of selling is just about average for the company, according to figures compiled by Invest/Net, a North Miami, Fla., firm that specializes in tracking and analyzing SEC insider filings.
Insider selling is not unusual at Dun & Bradstreet; in fact, the recent pace of selling is just about average for the company, according to figures compiled by Invest/Net, a North Miami, Fla., firm that specializes in tracking and analyzing SEC insider filings.previous sales have often been sales of shares purchased through the exercise of stock options and sold six months later, as soon as allowed.
and sold six months later.allowed.
he bought the shares.he felt they were "a good investment.
The executive made his purchases.being named to his current chief executive officer's position.
On Wall Street, Merrill Lynch & Co. analyst Daniel A. Roling rates the stock "neutral.Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. lists it as a "buy.
Now, only God exists as a matter of absolute necessity; it is built into His nature.since the time of Darwin, we humans could at least claim a sort of natural necessity for the existence of our species.
mutation and natural selection slowly but surely give rise to more and more advanced forms of life.it was only a matter of eons before splendid beings endowed with reason, self-awareness and taste shimmered onto the scene.
then it was only a matter of eons.splendid beings endowed with reason, self-awareness and taste shimmered onto the scene.
Star lecturer at Harvard, author of numerous popular books on science, and scourge of the creationist lobby, Mr. Gould is perhaps the world's most eminent evolutionary theorist.he puts quite a twist on the old story handed down from Darwin.
The received Darwinian wisdom of the day said that animals living so long ago must be simple in design, limited in scope and ancestral to contemporary species.the hidebound traditionalist reconstructed hypothetical organisms from the Burgess fossils in such a way that they could be shoehorned into familiar categories.
A good deal of the book is boring, particularly the endless allusions to high and pop culture and the frequent jokes festooning the text.Interest picks up when Mr. Gould gets around to discussing the meaning of the Burgess oddities for the theory of evolution.
Interest picks up, though.Mr. Gould gets around to discussing the meaning of the Burgess oddities for the theory of evolution.
Not long after the appearance of life, evidently, there was an explosive proliferation in the number of animal designs seen on the earth.The vast majority of them were wiped out by a succession of environmental upheavals that were too sudden and catastrophic for the normal rules of natural selection to operate.
The vast majority of them, however, were wiped out by a succession of environmental upheavals that were too sudden and catastrophic for the normal rules of natural selection to operate.the winnowing process was like a lottery "in which each group {held} a ticket unrelated to its anatomical virtues.
Our mammalian forerunners lucked out through the extraterrestrial impact that did in the dinosaurs.they were small, not smart.
Mr. Gould sketches several.anyone has difficulty imagining a world in which history went merrily on without us.
it seems, human evolutionary hopes hung on the survival of a little worm with a backbone called Pikaia.the Burgess fauna were flourishing.
Mr. Gould finds this oddly exhilarating; like an existentialist of old, he views our contingency as "a source of both freedom and consequent moral responsibility.I cannot help feeling that if some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived instead, beings at once wiser and less boorish than Homo sapiens might have eventually gained earthly dominion.
that beings at once wiser and less boorish than Homo sapiens might have eventually gained earthly dominion.some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived instead.
on the survival of a little worm with a backbone called Pikaia.that if some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived.
I, by contrast, cannot help feeling that if some other curiosity from the Burgess Shale had survived instead, beings at once wiser and less boorish than Homo sapiens might have eventually gained earthly dominion.even if no conscious life had evolved here at all, the universe is a big place, and given the right conditions, sympathetic to creating some form of life.
But the universe is a big place, and given the right conditions, sympathetic to creating some form of life.no conscious life had evolved here at all.
They discourage prosecutors, under certain circumstances, from seeking court orders seizing the assets of racketeering defendants prior to trial.the guidelines "are a codification and a clarification far more than a new direction.
that the law unfairly strips defendants of assets.a jury determines they have committed a crime.
that the law unfairly strips defendants of assets before a jury determines they have committed a crime.that aggressive use of the forfeiture provisions can ruin corporate defendants or force them into unfavorable plea bargains.
In the new guidelines, the Justice Department says that in attempting to freeze disputed assets before trial, "the government will not seek to disrupt the normal, legitimate business activities of the defendant" and "will not seek. . .to take from third parties assets legitimately transferred to them.The guidelines state, "The government's policy is not to seek the fullest forfeiture permissible under the law where that forfeiture would be disproportionate to the defendant's crime.
The impact will be impossible to judge ahead of time.there is any.
The impact, if there is any, will be impossible to judge ahead of time.the decision whether to use {racketeering charges} is made in individual cases" by Justice Department officials in Washington.
that government efforts to freeze defendants' assets pending racketeering prosecutions "have been the subject of considerable criticism in the press.the government isn't "backing off on these kinds of matters at all.
The state had sought as much as $4.1 billion in relief.yesterday the House approved a more general scaled-back measure calling for $2.85 billion in aid.
California's so-called Gann limit effectively prevents the state from spending new tax money.and drastically limits its options in an emergency.
Both Mr. Brown, the state's most influential legislator, and Gov. Deukmejian favor a temporary sales tax increase.According to a spokesman, the governor is studying the possibility of raising state gasoline taxes.
According to a spokesman, the governor is also studying the possibility of raising state gasoline taxes.Mr. Brown believes "only one tax will be feasible, and it will be a one-penny sales tax increase.
According to a spokesman, the governor is also studying the possibility of raising state gasoline taxes.Mr. Brown believes "only one tax will be feasible, and it will be a one-penny sales tax increase.
only one tax will be feasible.it will be a one-penny sales tax increase.
The fund has about $1 billion and is set up to handle "precisely the kind of emergency" the state faces, said Tom Beermann, the Governor's deputy press secretary.the fund's size is disputed by Mr. Brown's office, which estimates the fund holds from $630 million to $800 million.
But the fund's size is disputed by Mr. Brown's office.Gov. Deukmejian "has expressed a desire not to spend all the reserve on this.
Both Mr. Brown, the state's most influential legislator, and Gov. Deukmejian favor a temporary sales tax increase -- should more money be needed than the state can raise from existing sources and the federal government.To push through a sales tax increase the state will have to suspend the Gann limit, citing an emergency.
To push through a sales tax increase, however, the state will have to suspend the Gann limit, citing an emergency.then it will be required to lower taxes by a corresponding amount during a three-year period after the temporary tax increase ends.
however, the state will have to suspend the Gann limit, citing an emergency.And it will be required to lower taxes by a corresponding amount during a three-year period after the temporary tax increase ends.
And then it will be required to lower taxes by a corresponding amount during a three-year period.the temporary tax increase ends.
A sales tax increase would require two-thirds approval in both houses of the state's legislature.observers expect broad support.
the attitude will be supportive.there's an emergency and there aren't sufficient funds from elsewhere.
If there's an emergency.there aren't sufficient funds from elsewhere.
But observers expect broad support.others think property owners ought to pay a higher portion of the state's earthquake relief tab.
To push through a sales tax increase property owners ought to pay a higher portion of the state's earthquake relief tab.The state could increase gasoline taxes.
The state could also increase gasoline taxes; every one penny increase in the tax would yield $11 million a month.Gov. Deukmejian and others are reluctant to do anything to harm the state's chances of sharply raising gasoline taxes on a permanent basis.
To raise more highway funds, a measure to double the state's nine-cent a gallon tax over five years is set to appear on the state's June election ballot.some fear imposing a temporary gasoline tax increase in the meantime could undercut support among voters for the measure.
a measure to double the state's nine-cent a gallon tax over five years is set to appear on the state's June election ballot.imposing a temporary gasoline tax increase.
a measure to double the state's nine-cent a gallon tax over five years is set to appear on the state's June election ballot.imposing a temporary gasoline tax increase.
California legislators, searching for ways to pay for the $4 billion to $6 billion in damages from last week's earthquake, are laying the groundwork for a temporary increase in the state's sales tax.two men injured in last week's earthquake-triggered freeway collapse in Oakland began a legal battle against the state over whether officials adequately heeded warnings about the structure's safety.
that design of the structure was defective.that they failed to make reasonable changes.
The issue includes $100 million of insured senior lien bonds.There are $40 million of uninsured subordinate lien bonds, due Dec. 1, 2008, and Dec. 1, 2015.
The $82.8 million of Series B bonds, which aren't subject to the alternative minimum tax, were priced at par to yield from 6.85% in 2000 to 7.20% in 2009.the $50 million of Series C bonds, which are suject to the alternative minimum tax, were priced at par to yield from 6.25% in 1990 to 7.10% to 2000.
People start their own businesses for many reasons.a chance to fill out sales-tax records is rarely one of them.
Ironically, the person who wants to run his or her own business is probably the active, results-oriented sort most likely to hate meeting the rules and record-keeping demands of federal, state and local regulators.every business owner has to face the mound of forms and regulations -- and often is the only one available to tackle it.
There is hope of change.optimistic entrepreneurs await a promised land of less red tape -- just as soon as Uncle Sam gets around to arranging it.
Thus, optimistic entrepreneurs await a promised land of less red tape.Uncle Sam gets around to arranging it.
Thus, optimistic entrepreneurs await a promised land of less red tape -- just as soon as Uncle Sam gets around to arranging it.they tackle the mounds of paper -- and fantasize about a dream world where bulk-mail postal regulations and government inspectors are banished.
Thus, optimistic entrepreneurs await a promised land of less red tape -- just as soon as Uncle Sam gets around to arranging it.they tackle the mounds of paper -- and fantasize about a dream world where bulk-mail postal regulations and government inspectors are banished.
they most love to hate.they would hate to lose.
Some gripes about red tape are predictable: Architects complain about a host of building regulations, auto leasing companies about car insurance rules Taxi, leasing and other companies that maintain fleets of vehicles devote substantial resources to complying with state insurance laws and a host of agencies The most onerous is the record-keeping and filing required by tax authorities..Complying with environmental and workplace regulations runs a close second.gripes run the gamut.
One state environmental regulator returned a report.it wasn't heavy enough, it couldn't have been correct.
Employers must deposit withholding taxes exceeding $3,000 within three days after payroll -- or pay stiff penalties.that's a big problem for small businesses.
It's especially nettlesome.you're on the road and you're the one responsible.
if you're on the road.you're the one responsible.
An employer leaves itself open to a great deal of liability.its employee manuals don't reflect the most recent laws.
An employer leaves itself open to a great deal of liability if its employee manuals don't reflect the most recent laws.the ever-changing laws are usually so complicated and confusing that "you need professionals to help you; you can't do it yourself.
It doesn't increase benefits.it's costly and time-consuming.
Advertising agencies and other service companies are exempt from city and state sales tax in most locales.the exemption comes at a price of exhaustive records and rigorous reviews.
the nation's theatrical cognoscenti arched a collective eyebrow.the Trinity Repertory Theater named Anne Bogart its artistic director last spring.
Ms. Bogart, an acclaimed creator of deconstructed dramatic collages that tear into such sacred texts as Rodgers and Hammerstein's "South Pacific," is decidedly downtown.Trinity Rep is one of the nation's oldest and most respected regional theaters.
For Ms. Bogart, who initially studied and directed in Germany (and cites such European directors as Peter Stein, Giorgio Strehler and Ariane Mnouchkine as influences) tends to stage her productions with a Brechtian rigor -- whether the text demands it or not.Gorky, considered the father of Soviet socialist realism, did not write plays that easily lend themselves to deliberately antirealistic distancing techniques.
Gorky was a loyal if occasionally ambivalent proletarian writer committed to enlightening the masses with plain speaking rooted in a slightly sour version of Chekhovian humanism.Summerfolk," penned in 1904 as a kind of sequel to Chekhov's "Cherry Orchard," is a lawn party of Russian yuppies engaged in an exhausting ideological fight to the finish between the allrightniks and the reformers.
And "Summerfolk is a lawn party of Russian yuppies engaged in an exhausting ideological fight to the finish between the allrightniks and the reformers.Along the way there are lots of romantic dalliances.
Despite the absence of samovars (and a tendency to turn the furniture upside down), the production is rich in Russian ennui voiced by languorous folk sporting beige linen and rumpled cotton, with boaters and fishing poles aplenty.beyond this decorative nod to tradition, Ms. Bogart and company head off in a stylistic direction that all but transforms Gorky's naturalistic drama into something akin to, well, farce.
Not only do the actors stand outside their characters and make it clear they are at odds with them.they often literally stand on their heads.
Like Peter Sellars, Ms. Bogart manipulates her actors.they were rag dolls.
even hanging them from precipices.having them perform some gymnastic feats of derring-do.
The clash of ideologies survives this treatment.the nuance and richness of Gorky's individual characters have vanished in the scuffle.
As for the humor that Gorky's text provides it looks and sounds forced.repainted in such broad strokes (particularly by the lesser members of the ensemble).
Ms. Bogart does better with music than with words.she wants, as she so often does want, to express herself through Gorky's helpless play.
whom she appointed Trinity's first-ever musical director.whom she equipped with a spanking new $60,000 sound system and recording studio.
that her intent in such manipulative staging of the classics is simply an attempt to "make it new.that her fondest artistic wish was to find a way to play "Somewhere Over the Rainbow" so that the song's "original beauty comes through," surmounting the cliche.
to find a way to play "Somewhere Over the Rainbow.the song's "original beauty comes through," surmounting the cliche.
Janice Duclos, in addition to possessing one of the evening's more impressive vocal instruments, brings an unsuspected comedic touch to her role of Olga, everybody's favorite mom..Marni Rice plays the maid with so much edge as to steal her two scenes.it is the Trinity Rep newcomer, Jonathan Fried (Zamislov, the paralegal) who is the actor to watch, whether he is hamming it up while conducting the chamber musicians or seducing his neighbor's wife (Becca Lish) by licking her bosom.
whether he is hamming it up.conducting the chamber musicians.
ESB is aware that a hostile tender offer is being made by a foreign company for all of ESB's shares," said F.J. Port, ESB's president.Hostile entered the merger-acquisition lexicon.
ESB spurned Inco.within five days ESB had a "white knight" as United Aircraft -- headed by Harry Gray, a shrewdly friendly acquirer of companies -- offered $34 a share.
ESB spurned Inco and within five days ESB had a "white knight.United Aircraft -- headed by Harry Gray, a shrewdly friendly acquirer of companies -- offered $34 a share.
ESB spurned Inco and within five days ESB had a "white knight.United Aircraft -- headed by Harry Gray, a shrewdly friendly acquirer of companies -- offered $34 a share.
ESB directors warmly accepted.a whirlwind bidding match ensued.
Within a few days in July, Inco raised its bid to $36.United matched it.
Within a few days in July, Inco raised its bid to $36.United matched it.
On a single day Inco lifted its offer to $38.and to $41, equal to $225.5 million.
United met the $38.but withdrew.
ESB on July 29 accepted the Inco offer.the brief battle -- unlike the intricate and lengthy big takeovers of 1984-1989 -- was over.
ESB on July 29 accepted the Inco offer.the brief battle -- unlike the intricate and lengthy big takeovers of 1984-1989 -- was over.
HomeFed had been one of the handful of large West Coast thrifts that in recent quarters had counteracted interest-rate problems dogging the industry by keeping a lid on problem assets and lending heavily into the furious California housing market.HomeFed's loan originations and purchases plunged 26% in the quarter, to $1.4 billion from $1.9 billion a year earlier.
However, HomeFed's loan originations and purchases plunged 26% in the quarter, to $1.4 billion from $1.9 billion a year earlier.non-performing assets rose to $593 million from $518.7 million.
However, HomeFed's loan originations and purchases plunged 26% in the quarter, to $1.4 billion from $1.9 billion a year earlier.non-performing assets rose to $593 million from $518.7 million.
sales of such properties were slower than anticipated in the third quarter.it expects sales to pick up in the rest of the year.
Any such downturn in California would be grim news for West Coast thrifts, particularly the less healthy ones, which have performed poorly even with a torrid market.it purposely curbed loan originations in the quarter because of uncertainty over the new capital requirements and regulations that will emerge from negotiations over implementing the government's massive thrift bailout bill.
its real-estate operations earned a record $21.7 million, more than double year-earlier real estate profit of $9 million.they see no signs of an imminent swoon in California real estate, even with last week's earthquake.
Meanwhile, non-performing assets rose to $593 million from $518.7 million.earnings were nicked in the quarter by a $4 million provision for losses associated with its previously reported plan to liquidate a real-estate franchise network.
Interest rates generally began declining last spring.moving steadily upward for more than a year.
The average yield on six-month broker-sold CDs rose to 8.29% from 8.05%.on one-year CDs the average yield rose to 8.30% from 8.09%.
Only CDs sold by major brokerage firms posted significant increases in average yields in the latest week, reflecting increased yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction.So-called jumbo CDs, typically in denominations of $90,000 and up usually follow T-bills and interest rate trends in general more than those aimed at small investors.
The average yield on threemonth jumbos rose to 8.00% from 7.96%.the two-year average fell by the same amount to 7.89%.
The small changes in averages reflect generally unchanged yields at many major banks.Some lowered yields significantly.
Some, however, lowered yields significantly.At Chase Manhattan Bank in New York the yield on a small denomination six-month CD fell about a quarter of a percentage point to 8.06%.
Wang had reached an agreement with a "major financial firm" to sell for $150 million its domestic equipment lease portfolio and that of its Wang Credit Corp. subsidiary.it agreed to sell a portion of its European real estate unit for $37 million.
The company didn't disclose a purchase price or capitalization figures.it will invest about 1.4 billion yen ($9.9 million) in the new company.
profit for the three months ended Sept. 9 was $7.1 million, compared with $23 million a year earlier.the year-earlier results included gains of $23.5 million from divestitures.
Benjamin Jacobson & Sons has been the New York Stock Exchange specialist firm in charge of trading stock in UAL Corp. and its predecessors since the early 1930s.the firm has never had a day like yesterday.
it was priced at $150 a share, down more than $28 from Monday's close.it did a half-hour into the session.
It sank further to as low as $145.a big rally developed in the last half hour, pushing the stock back up to close at $170, down just $8.375 from Monday.
Munching pizza.they could.
and yelling.their voices gave out.
It was chaotic.we like to call it 'controlled chaos.
it would be a while longer.UAL resumed trading like a regular airline stock after months of gyrations.
he announced: "OK, buckle up.Mr. Jacobson walked into the office at 7:30 a.m. EDT.
which closed on the Big Board Monday at $178.375 a share.UAL traded in the third market as low as $158 a share.
In the 45 minutes before the 9:30 opening bell, the Jacobson specialists kept getting sell orders, heavier than they imagined.at 9:15, they posted a $135 to $155 "first indication," or the price range in which the stock would probably open.
That range was quickly narrowed to $145 to $155.traders surrounding the post were told that $148 to $150 would be the likely target.
some 400,000 shares traded at $150.UAL finally opened a half hour late.
On that earlier day, the stock's trading was halted at a critical time.the specialists could catch their breath.
Mr. Jacobson, his gray hair flying, didn't wear out his red-white-and-blue sneakers.he sweat so much he considered sending out for a new shirt.
Mr. Bates usually handles day-to-day UAL trading on his own.yesterday, the heavy trading action eventually consumed not only Messrs..Jacobson and Bates but four other Jacobson partners, all doing their specialist-firm job of tugging buyers and sellers together and adjusting prices to accommodate the market.
About 30 floor traders crammed near the UAL post most of the day.probably hundreds more came and went -- a "seething mass," as one trader described it.
The Bear Stearns order that marked the late-day turnaround caused a "massive buying effort.UAL jumped $20 a share to $170 in the last half hour.
Britain's current account deficit dropped to #1.6 billion ($2.56 billion) in September from an adjusted #2 billion ($3.21 billion) the previous month.the improvement comes amid increasing concern that a recession could strike the U.K. economy next year.
The outlook has deteriorated since the summer, with orders and employment falling and output at a standstill," said David Wigglesworth, chairman of the industry group's economic committee.He said investment by businesses is falling off.
Of 1,224 companies surveyed, 31% expect to cut spending on plant equipment and machinery.only 28% plan to spend more.
Of 1,224 companies surveyed, 31% expect to cut spending on plant equipment and machinery, while only 28% plan to spend more.despite mounting recession fears, government data don't yet show the economy grinding to a halt.
But despite mounting recession fears, government data don't yet show the economy grinding to a halt.Unemployment has continued to decline.
Unemployment, for example, has continued to decline.the September trade figures showed increases in both imports and exports.
But despite mounting recession fears, government data don't yet show the economy grinding to a halt.Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's government isn't currently expected to ease interest rates before next spring, if then.
David Owen, U.K. economist with Kleinwort Benson Group, reduced his growth forecast for 1990 to 0.7% from 1.2% and termed the risk of recession next year "quite high.he said the downturn probably won't become a "major contraction" similar to those of 1974 and 1982.
But despite mounting recession fears, government data don't yet show the economy grinding to a halt.Britain's current slump is a cause for concern here as the nation joins in the European Community's plan to create a unified market by 1992.
Still, Britain's current slump is a cause for concern here.the nation joins in the European Community's plan to create a unified market by 1992.
Compared with the major economies on the Continent, the U.K. faces both higher inflation and lower growth in the next several months.investment will be more likely to flow toward the other European economies and "the U.K. will be less prepared for the single market.
Britain's latest trade figures contained some positive news for the economy, such as a surge in the volume of exports, which were 8.5% higher than a year earlier.while September exports rose to #8.43 billion, imports shot up to #10.37 billion.
But imports shot up to #10.37 billion.September exports rose to #8.43 billion.
we tend to buy high-quality imports.the country gets wealthier.
it expects to receive acceptances for its offer of 253 pence ($4.05) per share representing at least 67% of Ross Catherall's issued share capital, or 12.7 million ordinary shares.its offer includes an option to receive a redeemable loan note in lieu of cash.
who will.bluebloods won't pay high prices for racehorses anymore.
The Thoroughbred Owners and Breeders Association, a Lexington, Ky.-based trade group, has launched "seminars" for "potential investors" at race tracks around the country.The group is considering promotional videos and perhaps a pitch to Wall Street investment bankers.
People in this business have been insulated.the real future of this game is in a number of people owning a few horses.
that he sold all his stocks.the market plummeted 190 points on Oct. 13.
that he sold all his stocks a week before the market plummeted 190 points on Oct. 13.he is using the money to help buy a 45-acre horse farm.
how exciting that would be.that's your horse.
Breeders are betting on the common folk.experts caution that this isn't a game for anyone with a weak stomach or wallet.
You have to go into it firmly believing that it's the kind of investment where you can lose everything.many have done just that.
Since then, prices have slumped, to an average of $395,374 this summer.that's for the best horses, with most selling for much less -- as little as $100 for some pedestrian thoroughbreds.
racehorse owners still try to capitalize on the elan of the sport.they move outside their traditional tony circle.
These beasts don't come with warranties.for every champion, there are plenty of nags.
One brown two-year-old filly was wheezing from a cold.another had splints on its legs.
Some badly managed partnerships have burned investors.they received advice from industry "consultants.
Some badly managed partnerships have burned investors, sometimes after they received advice from industry "consultants.owners have developed a "code of ethics," outlining rules for consultants and agents, and disclosure of fees and any conflicts of interest.
So owners have developed a "code of ethics," outlining rules for consultants and agents, and disclosure of fees and any conflicts of interest.some are skeptical of the code's effectiveness.
At a yearling sale, a buyer can go solo and get a horse for a few thousand dollars.that means paying the horse's maintenance.
Dunkin' Donuts Inc., battling a takeover proposal by Canada's DD Acquisition Corp., said that its directors will evaluate takeover offers submitted by Nov. 10.Dunkin' Donuts, based in Randolph, Mass said it would explore "alternatives," including a leveraged buy-out of the company, but hadn't set a date for submission of proposals.
a sale is one alternative being considered.the board hasn't decided whether to sell the doughnut franchiser.
Strong profit in the process industries, including chemical and pulp and paper, were offset by higher interest expense and by lower earnings.the company closed out certain long-term contracts.
Combustion reported improved profits in its automation and control products businesses.it narrowed its losses in its public sector and environmental segment.
to retain employees and management of Farmers Group Inc., including Leo E. Denlea Jr., chairman and chief executive officer.Axa succeeds in acquiring Farmers.
that the French insurer would keep Farmers' headquarters in Los Angeles and "will not send French people to run the company.Axa would maintain Farmers' relationships with the insurance exchanges that it manages.
Any acquisition of Farmers needs the approval of insurance commissioners in the nine states where Farmers operates.Mr. Bebear's trip will take him to Idaho, Arizona and New York after his stay here.
Mr. Bebear nonetheless appears to be trying to woo the company's executives with promises of autonomy and new-found authority under Axa.Axa has been rebuffed by Farmers and hasn't had any meetings with management.
Although Axa has been rebuffed by Farmers and hasn't had any meetings with management.Mr. Bebear appears to be trying to woo the company's executives with promises of autonomy and new-found authority under Axa.
the gain on the sale couldn't be estimated.the "tax treatment has been determined.
That division's revenue rose 2.3% to $472.5 million from $461.9 million in the year-ago period.Gains in advertising revenue resulted in operating profit of $78.4 million -- up 20% from $65.6 million.
and could cause a loss of future defense contracts.Pentagon and Justice Department officials take a tough stance.
The company has been considered an industry leader in advocating cooperation and voluntary disclosures of improper or inflated billing practices.the government now claims that a group of company managers and lawyers engaged in an elaborate strategy over five years to obscure from federal authorities the extent and details of "widespread" fraudulent billing practices.
that all of its units had corrected billing problems.and should become eligible again for new contracts.
that Mr. Orr "was erroneously informed that the {suspected} practices had only just been discovered" by GE management.GE finally disclosed the problems.
that allegedly sat on damaging evidence of overcharges from 1983 to 1985, despite warnings from an internal auditor.When GE disclosed the problems.
that senior GE managers didn't find out about questionable billing practices until 1985.that the information was passed on quickly to Mr. Orr at his first meeting with company representatives.
initiated.the company and two of its units were briefly suspended from federal contracts.
The company's conduct "does not even raise a question of wrongful corporate intent, ratification or cover-up.it shows a corporation reacting swiftly and aggressively to very difficult issues in largely uncharted waters.
it wanted the acquistion.Applied Solar is involved in solar cells and solid-state laser components, and this fits with McDonnell's business of laser applications for military space.
it wanted the acquistion because Applied Solar is involved in solar cells and solid-state laser components.this fits with McDonnell's business of laser applications for military space.
it was expected to make an announcement early this morning.he wasn't aware of the nature of the talks under way between committee members and their advisers.
Cineplex traded on the New York Stock Exchange at $11.25 a share, up $1.125.trading was halted.
Tokyo's winning streak came to an end.stocks fell in Frankfurt and across Europe as well.
The trade and CBI reports refocused attention on high interest rates and corporate profitability and helped rekindle underlying concerns over prospects for a recession in the U.K., dealers said.Market watchers noted an absence of institutional interest later in the session helped pave the way for broader declines when Wall Street opened weaker.
an absence of institutional interest later in the session helped pave the way for broader declines.Wall Street opened weaker.
that market-makers were knocking share prices down in midafternoon in a bid to attract some interest.the action largely helped open the way for London's late declines.
On the life insurance side, Pearl Group finished 5 lower at 640.Sun Life dropped 15 to #11.53.
that it will seek 100% of Jaguar's shares outstanding.U.K. government share regulations are lifted at the end of next year.
the market again failed to find a trading focus, discouraging much participation by investors.The market is expected to remain stable and expectations for future gains are high.
The market, however, is expected to remain stable.expectations for future gains are high.
The market sentiment is bullish.there are few bad factors.
Buying activity Tuesday centered on a wide range of midcapitalization, domestic demand-related shares whose prices range from 1,000 to 2,000 yen.high-priced shares such as Pioneer Electronic and Sony failed to spark investor interest.
On the other hand, high-priced shares such as Pioneer Electronic and Sony failed to spark investor interest.these issues are unlikely to be bought by investment trust funds.
TDK fell 120 to 5,960, Fuji Photo Film declined 160 to 4,830.Fanuc dropped 160 to 7,440.
Share prices on the Frankfurt stock exchange closed sharply lower in thin dealings.worried investors remained idle as the result of two potentially destabilizing domestic developments.
Share prices on the Frankfurt stock exchange closed sharply lower in thin dealings.worried investors remained idle as the result of two potentially destabilizing domestic developments.
the market was exceptionally thin.small investors remain on the sidelines.
the market was exceptionally thin.small investors remain on the sidelines.
investors are not only licking their wounds following the turbulence last week.they have also been made nervous by two events in West Germany.
investors are not only licking their wounds following the turbulence last week.but they have been made nervous by two events in West Germany.
investors are worried that the CDU won't be able to hold office in federal elections at the end of 1990.statements by the chairman of the IG Metall labor union, Franz Steinkuehler, also cast a cloud over trading.
investors are worried that the CDU won't be able to hold office in federal elections at the end of 1990.And statements by the chairman of the IG Metall labor union, Franz Steinkuehler, cast a cloud over trading.
The decline in prices cut broadly through the blue-chip issues.Siemens tumbled 7.5 to 544, Deutsche Bank plunged 7 to 657, and the auto makers fell sharply as well.
The decline in prices cut broadly through the blue-chip issues, as Siemens tumbled 7.5 to 544, Deutsche Bank plunged 7 to 657.the auto makers fell sharply as well.
Daimler-Benz dropped 12.5 to 710.5, Bayerische Motoren Werke dropped 10.5 to 543.5.Volkswagen lost 7.1.
Savings and loans reject blacks for mortgage loans twice as often as they reject whites.that doesn't necessarily mean thrifts are discriminating against blacks.
it doesn't have data on the financial position of applicants.and can't determine why blacks are rejected more often.
it doesn't have data on the financial position of applicants and thus can't determine why blacks are rejected more often.they are worried that financial institutions are routinely discriminating against minorities.
m not a statistician.when blacks are getting their loan applications rejected twice as often as whites I conclude that discrimination is part of the problem.
But that discrimination is part of the problem.blacks are getting their loan applications rejected twice as often as whites.
But that discrimination is part of the problem.blacks are getting their loan applications rejected twice as often as whites.
when blacks are getting their loan applications rejected twice as often as whites.in some cities, it is three and four times as often.
The data is a red flag.lacking the financial data you can't make a case that discrimination is widespread.
that required regulators to report on evidence of discimination in mortgage lending.The legislation requires broad new disclosures of the race, sex and income level of borrowers.
The legislation also requires broad new disclosures of the race, sex and income level of borrowers.that information won't be gathered in new studies for several months at least.
The Federal Reserve said its studies in recent years, which adjust for income differences and other variables, showed that blacks received fewer home mortgages from banks and thrifts than whites.John LaWare, a Fed governor, told the subcommittee the evidence is mixed and that the Fed's believes the vast majority of banks aren't discriminating.
the evidence is mixed.the vast majority of banks aren't discriminating.
the evidence is mixed and that the Fed's believes the vast majority of banks aren't discriminating.the Fed studies have shown that blacks receive more home improvement loans than whites.
we've got folks out there who are being turned away in the mortgage market improperly and unfairly.that is a matter that needs remedy now, not six months from now, or six years from now, or 26 years from now.
The comptroller's office said it found no indications of illegal discrimination in 3,437 examinations of banks since April 1987.The comptroller's office said that of 37,000 complaints it received since January 1987, only 16 alleged racial discrimination in real estate lending.
The agency investigated the complaints.no violations were cited.
Using testers could be controversial with financial institutions.the U.S. League of Savings Institutions hadn't yet taken any position on the matter.
Time Warner Inc. is considering a legal challenge to Tele-Communications Inc. 's plan to buy half of Showtime Networks Inc., a move that could lead to all-out war between the cable industry's two most powerful players.Time is fighting the transaction on other fronts, by attempting to discourage other cable operators from joining Tele-Communications as investors in Showtime.
Tele-Communications is HBO's largest customer.the two have a number of other business relationships.
Time may seek to break up the transaction.it is consummated.
he wasn't aware of Time's legal plans.that any effort by Time to characterize the Tele-Communications investment in Showtime as anti-competitive would be "the pot calling the kettle black.
It's hard to see how an investment by the largest {cable operator} in the weaker of the two networks is anti-competitive.the stronger of the two networks is owned by the second largest" cable operator.
It's hard to see how an investment by the largest {cable operator} in the weaker of the two networks is anti-competitive.the stronger of the two networks is owned by the second largest" cable operator.
In addition to owning HBO, with 22 million subscribers.Time Warner operates cable-TV system serving about 5.6 million cable-TV subscribers.
Tele-Communications controls close to 12 million cable subscribers.Viacom has about one million.
that Viacom has potentially more power.Viacom also owns cable networks MTV, VH-1 and Nick at Nite.
that in joining up with Tele-Communications.particularly since Viacom owns cable networks MTV, VH-1 and Nick at Nite.
Tele-Communications has a 21.8% stake.Time Warner has a 17.8% stake.
Ironically, Tele-Communications and Time have often worked closely in the cable business.since Time's merger with Warner Communications Inc., relations between the two have become strained.
In its suit against Time, Viacom says the ownership of both cable systems and cable-programming networks gives the company too much market power..Time argues that in joining up with Tele-Communications, Viacom has potentially more power, particularly since Viacom also owns cable networks MTV, VH-1 and Nick at Nite.some legal observers say the Tele-Communications investment and other developments are weakening Viacom's antitrust suit against Time.
Viacom accuses Time in its suit of refusing to carry Showtime or a sister service, The Movie Channel, on Time's Manhattan Cable TV system, one of the nation's largest urban systems.yesterday, Manhattan Cable announced it will launch Showtime on Nov. 1 to over 230,000 subscribers.
Viacom accuses Time in its suit of refusing to carry Showtime or a sister service, The Movie Channel, on Time's Manhattan Cable TV system, one of the nation's largest urban systems.Showtime has accused HBO of locking up the lion's share of Hollywood's movies by signing exclusive contracts with all the major studios.
Showtime has also accused HBO of locking up the lion's share of Hollywood's movies by signing exclusive contracts with all the major studios.Showtime has continued to sign new contracts with Hollywood studios, and yesterday announced it will buy movies from Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc., which currently has a non-exclusive arrangement with HBO.
Under federal law the FTC must begin administrative proceedings to determine the legality of the proposed stock purchase within 20 days.the court grants a preliminary injunction.
several major carriers have posted or are expected to post relatively poor third-quarter results So far, the industry's fourth quarter isn't looking too strong either.the outlook for 1990 is nearly as bad.
when fares were rising at double-digit rates.many carriers seemed to be growing fat on near-monopolies in certain markets.
Now, many airline companies might become a lot less attractive as takeover targets on Wall Street.The downturn raises questions about the carriers' ambitious orders for new airplanes.
This turn of events has put a big damper on an industry that seemed almost invincible last spring.For travelers the industry's problems have had some positive effects.
Others have tried to spruce up frequent-flier programs.airlines were limiting the programs because they were becoming too expensive.
Previously, airlines were limiting the programs.they were becoming too expensive.
For travelers, though, the industry's problems have had some positive effects.Just last week Trans World Airlines and Pan Am Corp. 's Pan American World Airways went so far as to offer cash rebates or gift checks of $200 to $1,000 to certain frequent-flier members making trans-Atlantic flights in business class or first class.
USAir had said its third-quarter results would be "significantly lower" than a year earlier.that.
The results surprised many analysts.USAir has almost no competition in its Pittsburgh hub and has expanded operations by completing its acquisition of Piedmont Airlines.
USAir's stock tumbled $3 a share.announcing its quarterly loss.
this was.hefty fare increases earlier in the year scared off many leisure travelers this summer.
To try to combat the traffic slowdown, airlines started reducing fares.so far, the effort has failed, and traffic is still slow.
But so far, the effort has failed.traffic is still slow.
But so far, the effort has failed.traffic is still slow.
in which children were allowed to fly free.they were traveling with an adult.
Airlines tried to restrict the program substantially by limiting the offer to certain days of the week.it still was apparently used far more heavily than the airlines expected.
Airlines tried to restrict the program substantially by limiting the offer to certain days of the week, but it still was apparently used far more heavily than the airlines expected.Airlines say their frequent-flier programs are squeezing profits because awards are being redeemed at a heavier-than-normal rate.
their frequent-flier programs are squeezing profits.awards are being redeemed at a heavier-than-normal rate.
about three times as many free-travel coupons are being turned in as in previous years -- not surprisingly.the airlines last year allowed many travelers to build up mileage at triple the normal rate.
the industry's domestic traffic was flat in the third quarter But so far, the effort has failed, and traffic is still slow Some other fare promotions have backfired their frequent-flier programs are squeezing profits Rising operating expenses are another problem.some carriers are facing other unexpected headaches.
And some carriers are facing other unexpected headaches.USAir blamed some of its loss on merger expenses and on disruptions caused by Hurricane Hugo last month.
Those Metropolitan Life ads were bad enough.now, Charlie Brown is about to start pitching everything from Chex Party Mix to light bulbs.
Turns out that next year, Charlie Brown, Snoopy and the gang turn 40.Scripps Howard's United Media unit, the syndicator and licensing agent for Charles Schulz's comic strip, sees a bonanza in licensing the cartoon characters to a bevy of advertisers for ads, tie-ins and promotions.
Ralston Purina will promote its Chex Party Mix's three new flavor packets named for Charlie Brown, Lucy and Linus.The characters will be featured in a new public service effort for the United Way.
Beyond the advertisements, the syndicator is planning a traveling arena show, new TV specials for CBS and even an exhibit at the Smithsonian Institute.All the tie-ins have some marketing experts questioning whether the party may go too far.
you have to make your message as distinct, sharp and individual as possible.you want to cut through the clutter.
All the tie-ins, though, have some marketing experts questioning whether the party may go too far.United Media says it's very scrupulous with the contracts it hands out.
Metropolitan Life ad executives couldn't be reached about the use of the Peanuts characters by others.Mr. Shore says that company's exclusive advertising rights extend only to the insurance and financial services category.
Mr. Berry, 58, had resigned.being asked by Ogilvy 's chairman and chief executive officer, Kenneth Roman, to give up his title as creative head of the New York office and to take a fuzzier international role.
Yesterday WPP said Mr. Berry would return to take an international role at the parent company.Mr. Roman announced he would leave to take a top post at American Express.
the timing was a coincidence.that his decision was unrelated to Mr. Roman's departure.
New York-based RJR Nabisco wouldn't say what it spends annually.industry executives say it will spend more than $140 million this year, down from about $200 million last year.
A majority stake in Paxus currently held by NZI Corp. will be diluted to slightly less than 50%.IBM acquires its interest.
others are undervalued in the accounts.some assets have been written down.
An investment in Chile's telephone company is carried at US$300 million but really worth US$500 million.the company's property portfolio is undervalued by at least A$250 million.
they expect flat sales next year.they see the U.S. luxury-car market expanding slightly.
Most of the growth, he said, will come in the $35,000-to-$50,000 price range, where Mercedes has a 35% U.S. market share.Mr. Krampe said that Mercedes plans to bring out new models every year through the mid-1990s and it will shorten its product development cycle to eight years from 10 or 12 years to compete more effectively with Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus, Nissan Motor Co. 's Infiniti and Honda Motor Co. 's Acura luxury-car divisions.
that Mercedes plans to bring out new models every year through the mid-1990s.it will shorten its product development cycle to eight years from 10 or 12 years.
it will alter the auctions.it has assurance of enactment of legislation to raise the statutory debt limit before the scheduled auctions Monday.
its core businesses have performed well.it expects them to continue to do so in the remainder of the fiscal year.
Domestic demand continues to grow.its contribution to higher production was sapped in September by the estimated 2% fall in imports, accompanied by a growing tendency for Japanese manufacturers to build vehicles overseas, according to the association.
Demand has been growing consistently under the encouragement of pro-consumption government policies, an association spokesman said.He said the introduction of a 3% consumption tax in April has helped sales.
Minitruck production fell 13% to 94,243 units.Bus production slipped, by 49% from a year earlier to 2,936 units.
announced.the market closed Monday.
The deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders.who had seen UAL stock tumble 49% since Oct. 12.
The board's decision initially prompted a severe sell-off in UAL shares.The deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders triggered a marketwide sell-off that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 80 points at 10:40 a.m.
The deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders also triggered a marketwide sell-off that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 80 points at 10:40 a.m.then steady, concentrated buying by Bear, Stearns & Co. took hold and steadied the fall in UAL, which eventually buoyed the entire market.
The deepening bloodbath for takeover-stock traders also triggered a marketwide sell-off that sent the Dow Jones Industrial Average down more than 80 points at 10:40 a.m.But steady, concentrated buying by Bear, Stearns & Co. took hold and steadied the fall in UAL.
The two most frequently rumored buyers were Coniston Partners and New York real estate developer Donald Trump.one person familiar with UAL said the signs pointed to Coniston because Mr. Trump hasn't asked for permission to buy more than $15 million of stock under federal antitrust rules.
the signs pointed to Coniston.Mr. Trump hasn't asked for permission to buy more than $15 million of stock under federal antitrust rules.
Baker, Nye Investments, a New York takeover-stock trader that owns UAL stock, wouldn't comment on reports the firm is considering seeking such a shareholder vote.partner Richard Nye said, "This is the most extraordinary failed transaction I've seen in 25 years in this business.
In 1986, Baker, Nye waged a proxy fight for control of Leaseway Transportation Inc.that led to Leaseway's being sold.
In 1986, Baker, Nye waged a proxy fight for control of Leaseway Transportation Inc.that led to Leaseway's being sold.
that recapitalizations could yield $245 to $280 a share.those would require pilots' cooperation.
The pilots are working under an expired contract.the machinists contract expires next month.
Any investor who acquires UAL stock in an attempt to force a buy-out or recapitalization must deal with United's contentious unions.a catalyst like Coniston could seek shareholder support for a sale to a labor-management group at the last price discussed by that group before the board meeting Monday.
the unsettled labor situation and the uncertain world-wide financial markets contributed to the board's decision to avoid "rushing around selling the company at a bargain price.it accepted a $300-a-share offer just last month.
they couldn't quarrel with the board's logic.the board's decision prompted many to bail out of the stock yesterday.
They check in.they can't check out.
Any investor who acquires UAL stock in an attempt to force a buy-out or recapitalization must deal with United's contentious unions.both the traders and the pilots remain interested in some transaction.
The pilots might end up teaming up with their longtime adversaries, the machinists union, in a recapitalization.It is unclear if the machinists would support a majority stake.
One person familiar with Texas billionaire Robert Bass said he isn't likely to make any hostile moves.a spokesman for Reliance Group Holdings Inc., which had held 7% of UAL before the first buy-out bid but later reduced its holdings below 5%, wouldn't comment.
which had held 7% of UAL before the first buy-out bid.but reduced its holdings below 5%.
The Los Angeles investor can't buy UAL stock, solicit shareholder consents or make a new offer.he makes a formal offer of $300 a share or UAL accepts an offer below $300.
The Los Angeles investor can't buy UAL stock, solicit shareholder consents or make a new offer unless he makes a formal offer of $300 a share or UAL accepts an offer below $300.Mr. Davis could pressure the board by asking that the agreement be waived, or letting it be known that he has financing for an offer at a lower price.
tried to rally but failed.and triggered stop-loss orders on its way down.
to execute them.the market hits a predetermined price.
the decline was almost certainly influenced by the early sell-off in the stock market, which partly reflected a weakening economy.though a weakening economy implies reduced demand h hat Third World copper-producing countries haven't any choice but to sell copper.
But that Third World copper-producing countries haven't any choice but to sell copper.a weakening economy implies reduced demand.
that a lot of traders had bought into the market.the price was in the $1.24 to $1.26 range.
traders started selling out their positions.the market fell below that level on Monday and then yesterday couldn't climb above that level.
When the market fell below that level on Monday.and yesterday couldn't climb above that level.
that we could see a rally back to the $1.20 region.the selling abates somewhat.
the number is a little better.copper will respond positively.
it is worse.more selling could ensue.
that relating economic numbers to specific market activity is tricky.Yesterday the durable goods numbers came out for September and the number was down only 0.1% However, if you exclude defense-related orders then durable goods were down 3.9%..I believe that number reflects a slowing economy.
Yesterday, for example, "the durable goods numbers came out for September.the number was down only 0.1%.
and the number was down only 0.1%.if you exclude defense-related orders then durable goods were down 3.9%.
you exclude defense-related orders.However durable goods were down 3.9%.
that the preliminary estimate of the third-quarter gross national product is due out tomorrow.copper traders will be looking toward the release of the index of leading economic indicators next Tuesday.
that number reflects a slowing economy.that so far this year copper consumption is way ahead of the same period of 1988, and that projected production is below last year.
that so far this year copper consumption is way ahead of the same period of 1988.that projected production is below last year.
the copper market seems to be anticipating a recession in three months.we have had that exact same perception six times in the last six years.
we will be out of copper by the end of March.there isn't a recession.
that will change the statistical situation.there is a recession.
Prices for the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude remained locked in a fairly narrow range.ending the session four cents lower at $19.72 a barrel for December delivery.
the petroleum market was ready to rally after two days of price declines from profit-taking.an early 80-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average stopped the crude rally cold.
The industrial average recovered to close only 3.69 points lower.petroleum futures never shook off the chill.
that two weeks ago there were rumors of Soviet sales of precious metals to finance grain purchases.the sales don't seem to have materialized.
Gold still acts as a haven.uncertainty prevails in the financial markets as it did" yesterday.
The high ratio reflects the fact that silver is still regarded as about a half-industrial metal.its price lagging relative to gold says that traders are expecting a weakening economy.
GRAINS AND SOYBEANS: Prices closed lower.trading in relatively narrow ranges because of strong selling in the cash market and continued favorable harvest weather.
The sale to the Chinese government of 330,000 metric tons of wheat under the government's export enhancement program was announced after the close of trading Monday.the sale was expected and failed to buoy prices yesterday.
Futures at first continued the rally begun on Monday.but faltered and closed lower.
triggered some previously placed buy orders just above $1,030 a metric ton, pushing the price to $1,040.and encountered heavy selling by traders who buy and sell for their own accounts and by commercial interests.
cocoa fell to relentless pressure from bearish traders.there was arbitrage buying in New York because of the weak dollar.
cocoa fell to relentless pressure from bearish traders.there is much more of a decline in store for cocoa.
its lifetime high was $1,735, set in 1988.its recent high was $1,368, set in early August.
The last time cocoa traded at prices as low as currently was in 1974.while further modest declines might be ahead, Mr. Hafer said it would be difficult to get through resistance levels just above yesterday's high.
it would be difficult to get through resistance levels just above yesterday's high.further modest declines might be ahead.
its major creditor, General Electric Pension Trust, agreed to convert $11.8 million of debt owed into 25% of Color System's fully diluted common stock.The agreement calls for General Electric Pension, a unit of General Electric Co., to receive as much as 10% of Color Systems' fully diluted common stock, depending on the proceeds from the sale of the AEI Film Library and its receivables.
General Electric Pension took control of the 85-title library last month.Color Systems defaulted on the loan.
Next to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts's megabillion RJR Nabisco deal, SCI Television is small fry.the troubles of SCI TV are a classic tale of the leveraged buy-out excesses of the 1980s, especially the asset-stripping game.
that went bad.piling on debt.
SCI TV isn't just another LBO that went bad after piling on debt.it did do that.
SCI TV's buy-out was an ace in the hole for Mr. Kravis and for investors in KKR partnerships.it has left holders of SCI TV's junk bonds holding the bag, including some heavyweights that KKR might need to finance future deals, such as Kemper Financial Services, First Executive, Columbia Savings & Loan and Prudential Insurance Co. of America.
Some junk-holders are said to be considering legal action against KKR or moves to force SCI TV into bankruptcy court.KKR's majority partner in SCI TV's buy-out, Nashville, Tenn., entrepreneur George Gillett, also is said to be very unhappy.
Some junk-holders are said to be considering legal action against KKR or moves to force SCI TV into bankruptcy court.And KKR's majority partner in SCI TV's buy-out, Nashville, Tenn., entrepreneur George Gillett, is said to be very unhappy.
KKR loaded up the cable and television company with debt in an 1985 buy-out.later sold Storer's cable operations at a fat profit.
KKR loaded up the cable and television company with debt in an 1985 buy-out.then sold Storer's cable operations at a fat profit.
In this second LBO, KKR with one hand took more than $1 billion of cash out of the TV company's assets and moved it into the Storer cable operations, making them more valuable in a 1988 sale.Storer took $125 million of junior SCI TV bonds as partial payment for the TV assets.
With the other hand, KKR put back into SCI TV less than 10% of the cash it had taken out, buying SCI TV common and preferred shares.while KKR today has an estimated $250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV, including equity and debt, the LBO firm still is $1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out after taking cash up front.
So the LBO firm still is $1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out after taking cash up front.KKR today has an estimated $250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV, including equity and debt.
the LBO firm still is $1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out.taking cash up front.
So, while KKR today has an estimated $250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV, including equity and debt, the LBO firm still is $1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out after taking cash up front..On Storer as a whole, KKR racked up compound annual returns of 60% in the three years it owned Storer.Mr. Gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $100 million in SCI TV if the company can't be restructured.
So, while KKR today has an estimated $250 million sunk in now-shaky SCI TV, including equity and debt, the LBO firm still is $1 billion ahead on the SCI TV buy-out after taking cash up front..On Storer as a whole, KKR racked up compound annual returns of 60% in the three years it owned Storer.Mr. Gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $100 million in SCI TV if the company can't be restructured.
Meanwhile, Mr. Gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $100 million in SCI TV.the company can't be restructured.
Meanwhile, Mr. Gillett risks losing his entire equity investment of about $100 million in SCI TV if the company can't be restructured.Mr. Gillett's holding company, Gillett Holdings, is heavily indebted and, except for its Vail Mountain resorts, isn't doing very well.
that it might fetch 30% less than in the 1987 buy-out.SCI TV had to be liquidated today.
that if SCI TV had to be liquidated today, it might fetch 30% less than in the 1987 buy-out, wiping out most of the company's junk-holders and its stockholders.SCI TV can barely pay its cash interest bill, and to stay out of bankruptcy court it must soon reschedule a lot of bank loans and junk bonds that have fallen due.
that if SCI TV had to be liquidated today, it might fetch 30% less than in the 1987 buy-out, wiping out most of the company's junk-holders and its stockholders.SCI TV can barely pay its cash interest bill, and to stay out of bankruptcy court it must soon reschedule a lot of bank loans and junk bonds that have fallen due.
Meanwhile, SCI TV can barely pay its cash interest bill.to stay out of bankruptcy court it must soon reschedule a lot of bank loans and junk bonds that have fallen due.
Negotiations "have started con- structively.that's not to say we like this particular offer.
No major player in the SCI TV deal will talk publicly.it's understood that Mr. Kravis is disappointed that Mr. Gillett didn't manage to boost SCI TV's operating profit after the buy-out.
SCI TV can survive.lenders extend its debt payments until TV stations rise in value again.
if lenders extend its debt payments.TV stations rise in value again.
They would both give part of their combined $50 million in common equity in SCI TV to holders of SCI TV's $488 million of junk bonds, as a carrot to persuade them to accept new bonds that might reduce the value of their claims on the company.some militant SCI TV junk-holders say that's not enough.
Junk-holders say they have a stick to beat KKR with.others say junk-holders have nothing to gain by putting SCI TV into bankruptcy-law proceedings.
it clearly has much deeper pockets than Mr. Gillett.KKR doesn't control SCI TVwhich is unusual for a KKR investment.
Mr. Kravis set a precedent for putting new money in sour LBOs recently.KKR restructured foundering Seaman Furniture.
Mr. Kravis set a precedent for putting new money in sour LBOs recently when KKR restructured foundering Seaman Furniture, doubling KKR's equity stake.with Seaman, KKR was only trying to salvage its original investment.
But with Seaman, KKR was only trying to salvage its original investment.KKR probably has already made all the money it can on SCI TV.
By contrast, KKR probably has already made all the money it can on SCI TV.he isn't in a hurry to pour more money into SCI TV.
Rubbermaid Inc. boosted its quarterly dividend 18%, to 13 cents a share from 11 cents.the company's board adopted a proposal to amend its 1986 shareholder rights plan.
Some changes to the plan were minor adjustments.the most significant was an amendment that provides that if any investor holds 25% or more of Rubbermaid's voting securities, each right held by others would entitle the holder to buy Rubbermaid shares with a market value of twice the right's exercise price.
that each right held by others would entitle the holder to buy Rubbermaid shares with a market value of twice the right's exercise price.any investor holds 25% or more of Rubbermaid's voting securities.
The stock market went on a dizzying ride.UAL, parent of United Airlines, once again led shares into a breathtaking decline and then an afternoon comeback.
Takeover stock speculation and futures-related program trading drove the industrial average through wide ranges.there is more volatility to come.
a trading limit was hit in the S&P 500 stock futures pit.stocks and stock-index futures fell.
That caused a brief period of panic selling of stocks on the Big Board.at a critical moment, stock-index arbitrage traders showed their power and control..They scooped up hundreds of S&P futures when the market needed it most.
They scooped up hundreds of S&P futures.the market needed it most.
a preliminary price was flashed for UAL -- somewhere between 135 and 155, a loss of as much as $43 a share from Monday's close.the Big Board opened.
A UAL statement after the market closed Monday indicated that the airline's board wanted to keep the company independent, effectively crushing hopes of an immediate buy-out..Five minutes before the Big Board opened, a preliminary price was flashed for UAL -- somewhere between 135 and 155, a loss of as much as $43 a share from Monday's close.UAL opened for trading at 10:08 a.m. at 150, down $28.
There was a seething mass of people.there was a big liquidation of stock" across the board.
At 10:33 S&P futures trading was halted.program trades on the Big Board were routed into a special computer that scans for order imbalances.
Under the rules adopted by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the futures contract cannot drop below the limit.buyers can purchase futures.
The trading halt in the S&P 500 futures exacerbated selling and confusion.as the fright began to spread through the S&P pit, the big brokerage firms came in and bought futures aggressively.
But the big brokerage firms came in and bought futures aggressively.the fright began to spread through the S&P pit.
but held back on their offsetting purchases of futures.the S&P futures hit the trading limit.
These firms sold stock into the big morning decline, but seeing the velocity of the market's drop, held back on their offsetting purchases of futures until the S&P futures hit the trading limit.they completed the other side of the trade by buying futures.
which abruptly halted the stock market's decline.traders began to buy stocks.
which abruptly halted the stock market's decline.traders began to buy stocks.
From then on, the Dow industrials held at a loss of 40 to 50 points.in late-afternoon trading, hundred-thousand-share buy orders for UAL hit the market, including a 200,000-share order through Bear Stearns.
Then, in late-afternoon trading, hundred-thousand-share buy orders for UAL hit the market, including a 200,000-share order through Bear Stearns that seemed to spark UAL's late price surge.PaineWebber began a very visible buy program for dozens of stocks.
The combined buying rallied the Dow into a small gain.closing at a slight loss.
Some institutional traders loved the wild ride.traders who risk money handling big blocks of stock were shaken.
Credibility sounds intangible.I think we are losing credibility.
we are losing credibility.when the market does this, it doesn't present itself as a rational investment.
because it doesn't present itself as a rational investment.the market does this.
because when the market does this, it doesn't present itself as a rational investment.if you overlook all this, it is a beautiful market for investment still.
But it is a beautiful market for investment still.you overlook all this.
Other airline stocks fell in response to the UAL board's decision to remain independent for now, including USAir Group.which reported a third-quarter loss of $1.86 a share compared with a year-ago profit.
AMR, the parent of American Airlines, fell 1 3/4 to 68 7/8 on 2.3 million shares; Delta Air Lines lost 1 1/2 to 66, Southwest Airlines slid 3/4 to 24 1/4.Midway Airlines dropped 1/4 to 14 7/8.
UAL finished at 170, off 8 3/8 Other airline stocks fell in response to the UAL board's decision to remain independent for now, including USAir Group, which separately reported a third-quarter loss of $1.86 a share compared with a year-ago profit.Metals stocks were especially weak, as concerns about the earnings outlook for cyclical companies weighed on the group.
Metals stocks also were especially weak.concerns about the earnings outlook for cyclical companies weighed on the group.
Aluminum Co. of America dropped 1 1/2 to 70 1/4, Phelps Dodge fell 4 to 59 7/8, Asarco lost 1 3/8 to 31 3/4, Reynolds Metals slid 1 3/8 to 50 3/8, Amax dropped 1 1/8 to 21 5/8.Cyprus Minerals skidded 2 to 26 3/4.
Alcan Aluminium was an exception.it gained 1 3/8 to 23 on two million shares.
BankAmerica dropped 1 1/4 to 29 1/2 on 2.3 million shares amid rumors that the earthquake last week in the San Francisco area had caused structural damage to its headquarters building.Stocks of California-based thrifts were hard hit.
Great Western Financial lost 1 1/8 to 20 1/2 on 1.6 million shares, Golden West Financial dropped 1 1/4 to 28 1/2.H.F. Ahmanson dipped 5/8 to 21 1/4.
Golden Valley Microwave Foods skidded 3 5/8 to 31 3/4.warning that its fourth-quarter results could be hurt by "some fairly large international marketing expenses.
Vista Chemical rose 1 3/8 to 38 5/8.Bear Stearns added the stock to the firm's buy list, citing recent price weakness.
Strongly answer an unasked one.a question can't be answered.
Treasury bonds closed higher.being whipsawed by a volatile stock market.
After being whipsawed by a volatile stock market, Treasury bonds closed higher.junk bonds took more hits.
trading volume was heavy.large institutional investors scrambled to buy long-term Treasury bonds on speculation that the stock market's volatility would lead to a "flight-to-quality" rally.
That happens.nervous stock investors dump equities and buy Treasurys.
which are higher in quality.and considered safe.
Some retail accounts, such as commercial banks and pension funds, wanted to get on the bandwagon.it was too late.
At one point, the Dow Jones Industrial average fell about 80 points on news that UAL Corp. decided to remain independent..In response, Treasury prices soared 1 1/8 points, or about $11.25 for each $1,000 face amount.the gains in Treasury bonds were pared as stocks staged a partial recovery.
But the gains in Treasury bonds were pared.stocks staged a partial recovery.
trading volume was heavy as large institutional investors scrambled to buy long-term Treasury bonds on speculation that the stock market's volatility would lead to a "flight-to-quality" rally.the bond market's strength is a sign that investors expect the Federal Reserve to cut interest rates amid growing evidence that the economy is slowing.
they say the case for lower rates is building.they don't expect the Fed to move right away.
the case for lower rates is building.that new orders for durable goods fell 0.1%, while the nation's auto makers reported lackluster mid-October sales.
Yesterday, for example, the Commerce Department reported that new orders for durable goods fell 0.1%.the nation's auto makers reported lackluster mid-October sales.
The Treasury's 30-year bond ended over 1/4 point higher..Municipal, mortgage-backed and investment-grade corporate bonds rose 1/8 to 1/2 point.high-yield, high-risk bonds fell 1/4 to 1/2 point with the stock market early in the session and never recovered.
Trading activity in the junk market was extremely light.dealers couldn't find enough buyers to match sellers.
most {junk bond holders} were just watching it not knowing what to do.the stock market was falling.
investors are nervous about the issue.the company's ability to meet debt payments is dependent on too many variables, including the sale of assets and the need to mortgage property to retire some existing debt.
the company's ability to meet debt payments is dependent on too many variables, including the sale of assets and the need to mortgage property to retire some existing debt.the TW offering includes interest-deferred and pay-in-kind securities, which are currently unpopular.
Trading activity in the junk market was extremely light as dealers couldn't find enough buyers to match sellers.investors turned a cold shoulder to the Treasury's sale of $10 billion of new two-year notes yesterday.
Trading activity in the junk market was extremely light as dealers couldn't find enough buyers to match sellers.investors turned a cold shoulder to the Treasury's sale of $10 billion of new two-year notes yesterday.
People are looking past supply to lower interest rates.they're also worried about being whipsawed by the volatility in the stock market.
People are looking past supply to lower interest rates.but they're worried about being whipsawed by the volatility in the stock market.
The new two-year notes were priced with an average yield of 7.74%..That was higher than the 7.71% to 7.73% average yield that traders had expected..In when-issued trading, the notes were quoted at a price to yield 7.78%.Sluggish demand was evidenced by the weak 2.41-to-1 bid-to-cover ratio, which was lower than the average 2.79-to-1 ratio at the last 12 similar auctions.
players shied away from the note sale.they were concerned that prices at the time of the auction might erode if the stock market staged a recovery.
that prices at the time of the auction might erode.the stock market staged a recovery.
that prices at the time of the auction might erode if the stock market staged a recovery.which did happen.
They are typically not active in two-year note auctions.today's participation could be viewed as lighter-than-normal.
Interest by Japanese investors was limited.that the Japanese generally have a positive view of the U.S. bond market because of expectations that the dollar will remain strong and interest rates will decline.
that the dollar will remain strong.interest rates will decline.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills was quoted at 7.52% for a bond-equivalent yield of 7.75%.the rate on six-month Treasury bills was quoted at 7.47% for a yield of 7.85%.
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value.higher bidding narrows the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
Thus, higher bidding narrows the investor's return.lower bidding widens it.
Citicorp issued $200 million of seven-year notes priced to yield 8.82%.Xerox priced $150 million of six-year notes to yield 8.85%.
Several blue-chip companies tapped the new-issue market yesterday to take advantage of falling interest rates.International Business Machines Corp. paved the way for a visit to the credit markets by filing a shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission for $800 million in new debt.
municipals were underpinned by influences including the climb in Treasury issue prices.municipal bonds lured buying because the stock market remains wobbly.
Also, municipal bonds lured buying.the stock market remains wobbly.
municipals were underpinned by influences including the climb in Treasury issue prices..Also, municipal bonds lured buying because the stock market remains wobbly.Mainly it was a favorable outlook for yesterday's new supply that propped up municipals.
The derivative markets remained active.one new issue was priced and talk circulated about more offerings in the next day or two.
The derivative markets remained active as one new issue was priced.talk circulated about more offerings in the next day or two.
Among major pass-through issues, Ginnie Mae 9% securities for November delivery ended at 98 15/32, up 5/32.touching an early high of 98 27/32.
The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 9.34% to a 12-year average life assumption.the spread above the Treasury 10-year note held at 1.46 percentage points.
The Eurodollar bond market sprang to life late in the European trading session.the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled.
Eurodollar bonds are often issued by foreign corporations.interest and principal are paid in dollars.
The Eurodollar bond market sprang to life late in the European trading session after the Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled.Prices of European government bonds rose as U.S. stocks declined.
Prices of European government bonds also rose.U.S. stocks declined.
West Germany's 7% issue due October 1999 rose 0.13 point to 99.93 to yield 7.01%.the 6 3/4% issue due July 1994 rose 0.05 to 97.70 to yield 7.33%.
Britain's 11 3/4% Treasury bond due 2003/2007 rose 17/32 to 112 6/32 to yield 10.05%.the 12% notes due 1995 rose 11/32 to 104 2/32 to yield 10.93%.
that it has removed Thomas R. Waggoner as president and chief executive officer.that John R. Wolf, formerly executive vice president, sales and marketing, has been named president and chief executive officer.
when he ousted all the directors.they fired him, and two directors attempted to place the company under bankruptcy-law protection.
Later they fired him.two directors attempted to place the company under bankruptcy-law protection.
The company's latest announcement said Mr. Waggoner will remain a director of Staar, a maker of products for small-incision surgery.The Staar board said that John R. Ford resigned as a director, and that Mr. Wolf was named a member of the board.
that John R. Ford resigned as a director.that Mr. Wolf was named a member of the board.
Krenz said demonstrations to demand democratic freedoms could cause a "worsening of the situation, or confrontation.the legislature confirmed him as the Communist Party leader.
Krenz said demonstrations to demand democratic freedoms could cause a "worsening of the situation, or confrontation.He reaffirmed East Germany's allegiance to Communist orthodoxy.
After the legislature confirmed him as the Communist Party leader, Krenz said demonstrations to demand democratic freedoms could cause a "worsening of the situation, or confrontation." He also reaffirmed East Germany's allegiance to Communist orthodoxy.as many as 12,000 people marched in East Berlin after the speech to protest his election.
The Iran-Contra judge agreed to allow Poindexter to subpoena the personal papers of ex-President Reagan.the judge denied a request by the former national security adviser to seek documents from Bush.
San Francisco Bay area officials said nine people remain missing in the aftermath of last week's earthquake..The death toll rose to 63.The House approved $2.85 billion to aid in the recovery from the temblor and from Hurricane Hugo as state legislators moved toward a temporary sales-tax increase.
The House, meanwhile, approved $2.85 billion to aid in the recovery from the temblor and from Hurricane Hugo.state legislators moved toward a temporary sales-tax increase.
Israel provided the State Department with a list of recent alleged terrorist incidents attributed to forces controlled by Arafat.the U.S. said it wasn't satisfied that the incidents constituted terrorism.
a study on the strategic role of nuclear arms in Western Europe.Soviet conventional weapons are reduced in the East bloc.
STOCK PRICES SWUNG wildly.the market reacted to an initial plunge by UAL shares, followed by a sharp rebound in the afternoon.
Bond prices surged in reaction to the sell-off in stocks.eased slightly during the afternoon recovery.
The stock closed down $8.375, at $170.plunging $33, to $145.
Jaguar has been discussing an alliance with GM.Ford's move may derail the talks.
Car and truck sales slid 20.5% in mid-October.U.S. manufacturers paid the price for heavy incentives earlier in the year.
Sears posted a 16% drop in third-quarter profit.U.S. retail operations recorded the first loss in over five years.
Prenatal diagnosis of genetic defects as early as the sixth week of pregnancy is increasingly common today.the mouse experiment at a Medical Research Council laboratory in London shows genetic defects can be detected three days after conception using a new American-developed gene-copying technique.
Three days later it was washed out of the mother mouse.the new embryo had become implanted in the uterus.
One cell was teased out.its DNA extracted.
such embryo diagnosis can be used by couples at high risk of passing a genetic defect to a child.infertile couples who have the woman's eggs fertilized in the test tube usually have several eggs fertilized at a time..When the fertilized cells divide to eight cells, a single cell from each embryo can be tested for genetic defects..A healthy embryo can be picked for implantation and defective ones discarded.
a single cell from each embryo can be tested for genetic defects.the fertilized cells divide to eight cells.
A healthy embryo can be picked for implantation.defective ones discarded.
A healthy embryo can be picked for implantation and defective ones discarded.in other couples, the embryo could be temporarily taken out and tested three days after conception and returned if healthy, or discarded if not.
and returned.healthy.
or discarded.not.
which made protein from natural gas-derived alcohol.It could convert glucose from farm wastes into edible protein.
Single-cell protein never panned out.most companies abandoned such research.
Single-cell protein never panned out.most companies abandoned such research.
and most companies abandoned such research.Phillips persisted.
Like the bacteria used by genetic engineers, the yeast can take in human genes and churn out human proteins for medical use.the yeast genetic apparatus is more like that of animals than the bacterial genetic apparatus.
Like the bacteria used by genetic engineers, the yeast can take in human genes and churn out human proteins for medical use..But the yeast genetic apparatus is more like that of animals than the bacterial genetic apparatus.the proteins from the yeast are molecularly more like human proteins than those from bacteria.
Thus, the proteins from the yeast are molecularly more like human proteins than those from bacteria.its yeast system is better than bacteria at high-volume production of genetically engineered drugs.
that certain atoms give off detectable signals.subjected to an intense magnetic field.
In the Bell Labs experiments, an MRI-type of machine, synchronized with the heartbeat via an electrocardiogram, rapidly flashes a magnetic field on and off.blood passes a certain point in a vessel.
seen in disco dancers.a strobe light is flashing.
to measure the minuscule movements of the artery wall.the beating heart raises and lowers the pressure of the flowing blood, a first for such tiny blood vessels.
incurred.the government terminated its contract with Meredith Relocation and sought other contracts to replace it.
In the suit, the department seeks to recover $7.7 million in costs incurred when the government terminated its contract with Meredith Relocation and sought other contracts to replace it.The department said it seeks "three times the government's damages, which are presently undetermined, plus penalties.
the syndicates can extend their accounting deadlines.such claims and litigation extend beyond the period.
The procedure causes "great uncertainty.an investor can't be sure of his or her individual liability.
The open-year accounting practice "is widely recognized within Lloyd's as of serious concern" to the 31,329 member investors, who underwrite insurance at Lloyd's in return for premium and investment income The procedure causes "great uncertainty" because an investor can't be sure of his or her individual liability.the insurance market plans new measures to restrict the ability of syndicate officials to leave years open.
Under the new rules, the officials will have to secure additional information and reports from actuaries, including an assessment of whether officials have acted reasonably.officials will have to get quotes for certain reinsurance contracts and obtain approvals from other syndicate directors.
The drop in earnings had been anticipated by most Wall Street analysts.the results were reported after the market closed.
but the results were reported.the market closed.
In August, the company warned investors that the acquisition was being delayed.many customers were holding off on purchase decisions until the takeover was completed.
and many customers were holding off on purchase decisions.the takeover was completed.
Despite such famous tenants as oil magnate John D. Rockefeller, Lake View Cemetery has fallen on hard times.the inner-city burial ground is trying to resurrect itself with a television advertising campaign.
We want people to think of Lake View as an historical park and educational experience. . . . A pleasant place to come and spend a few hours.Not all of the cemetery's better-known tenants lend themselves to the promotional job at hand.
Not all of the cemetery's better-known tenants lend themselves to the promotional job at hand, however.President James A. Garfield is entombed here, the victim of an assassination in 1881.
Not all of the cemetery's better-known tenants lend themselves to the promotional job at hand, however..For example, President James A. Garfield is entombed here, the victim of an assassination in 1881.that the Garfield tomb is one of the nation's premier examples of Romanesque architecture.
For example, President James A. Garfield is entombed here, the victim of an assassination in 1881 Mr. Rockefeller didn't seem right for an ad either.there are plenty of other promising prospects at Lake View.
Euro Disneyland shares made a debut like Snow White yesterday.most of the London stock market looked like it had eaten the Evil Queen's poisoned apple.
Albert Fried Jr., a 59-year-old director and holder of a 9.5% stake in the company, was named chairman of this maker of products for the construction equipment, material handling and railroad industries.Mr. Fried is the managing partner of Albert Fried & Co.
to make a bid for all of the British auto maker.restrictions on its shareholding are lifted.
The British government currently forbids any outside investor from holding more than 15% of the company's shares without permission until Dec. 31.with its stake in Jaguar, which it raised yesterday to 11.95%, Ford could convene a special Jaguar shareholders' meeting and urge holders to vote to drop the restriction sooner.
Analysts have been expecting a GM-Jaguar pact that would give the U.S. car maker an eventual 30% stake in the British company and create joint ventures that would produce an executive-model range of cars.the specter of Ford eventually launching a full-fledged bid could unravel the GM-Jaguar talks.
It wouldn't surprise me.{Jaguar executives} want to wait and see what the color of that {Ford bid} is" first.
Sir John Egan, Jaguar's chairman, so far has refused to meet with Ford officials.he is believed to be willing to consider a specific bid proposal.
Both Ford and GM badly need a luxury brand to combat new competition from the Japanese in the European and U.S. markets.financially strapped Jaguar has spent over a year looking for a rich uncle to provide cash and technological know-how.
The company has expressed a preference for GM over Ford.GM has promised it would keep Jaguar independent.
when it abandoned a four-year effort to market its German-built Merkur Scorpio sedan as a European luxury import in the U.S.last Friday, Ford's talks about a possible alliance with Saab-Scania AB of Sweden collapsed.
Its Opel line has a solid image and a recent string of highly successful new models.it lacks Jaguar's cachet.
GM's interest in Jaguar reflects a desire to help diversify the U.S. company's products in the growing luxury-car segment of the market.GM officials see a lot of potential in marrying Jaguar's cars to the technological know-how of Group Lotus PLC, a British engineering and specialty car maker GM bought in 1986.
to the company's massive restructuring.it emerged from bankruptcy-law proceedings 18 months ago.
Texaco Inc. reported an 11% increase in third-quarter earnings.Sun Co. reported higher earnings.
Texaco Inc. reported an 11% increase in third-quarter earnings Sun Co. also reported higher earnings.like many other oil companies hurt by less-profitable downstream businesses, Mobil Corp., Shell Oil Co. and Chevron Corp. reported lower quarterly earnings.
Texaco Inc. reported an 11% increase in third-quarter earnings Sun Co. also reported higher earnings.like many other oil companies hurt by less-profitable downstream businesses, Mobil Corp., Shell Oil Co. and Chevron Corp. reported lower quarterly earnings.
Texaco's exploration and production earnings improved as a result of its streamlining of those operations.it sold many of its marginal producing properties over the past 18 months.
Texaco's exploration and production earnings improved as a result of its streamlining of those operations as it sold many of its marginal producing properties over the past 18 months.An increase in production at some major oil fields in the North Sea aided results.
Per-share earnings declined to $1.10 a share from $1.12 a share, largely because of 21 million additional shares issued to retire $1 billion of debt.Per-share earnings shrank because of dividends on a new series of preferred stock.
the synthetic crude oil production from the facility rose.the price for that oil increased.
some of the growth reflects higher earnings in the oil sands operation of Suncor, a majority-owned Canadian subsidiary.Overseas exploration and production results improved because of additional output from the North Sea Magnus Field, a portion of which was acquired by Sun earlier this year.
Overseas exploration and production results also improved because of additional output from the North Sea Magnus Field.Results declined in Sun's refining and marketing and coal businesses.
higher crude oil prices boosted profits from production operations.margins in refining and marketing declined.
and said it would stop mining and selling coal by year end.Asarco reported third-quarter net income rose 14%, to $52.7 million, or $1.25 a share, from a restated $46.2 million, or $1.10 a share, a year earlier.
that it is discussing a management-employee buy-out of the facility.that it would stop mining and selling coal at year end when existing sales contracts expire, regardless of the outcome of those talks.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
when he was named co-chairman of the investment-banking firm along with Howard L. Blum Jr.who became the sole chief executive.
he wasn't surprised Mr. Koenig resigned.his departure was "nothing that we desired or worked for.
it received a $12 million contract to provide virtual network services to Woolworth Corp. 's 5,600 corporate and retail sites in the.The contract provides for advanced billing and network management services.
to expand usage of the MCI services.it adds about 6,000 business locations over the next few years.
Exports reached $5.12 billion, up from $4.52 billion a year earlier.imports rose to $6.81 billion from $5.33 billion.
the trade gap for the year to surpass $2 billion.demand for capital equipment and raw materials continues to push imports higher.
Mr. Baker will relinquish his previous positions.a successor for him hasn't been named yet.
John F. McNair III will retire as president and chief executive officer of this regional banking company's Wachovia Corp. and Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. subsidiaries on Dec. 31..Mr. McNair, 62 years old, will be succeeded by L.M. "Bud" Baker Jr., 47, the parent's chief credit officer and head of its administration division.on Jan. 1, Thomas A. Bennett, 52, will become vice chairman and chief operating officer of Wachovia and Wachovia Bank & Trust, filling a vacancy left by the retired Hans W. Wanders in April.
South Korean exports to the U.S. during the period fell 1.6% from a year ago to $15.06 billion.imports from the U.S. soared 26% to $11.56 billion.
South Korean exports to Europe dropped 5.3% to $3.02 billion.imports from there went up 17% to $2.61 billion.
These gains were partly offset by output of cars and other consumer durables, which eased 3.9% from June's high level.The sector was 8.8% above its output levels from a year earlier, however.
These gains were partly offset by output of cars and other consumer durables, which eased 3.9% from June's high level.The sector was still 8.8% above its output levels from a year earlier.
that, in laboratory test-tube experiments, kills AIDS-infected cells.preserving healthy cells.
that, in laboratory test-tube experiments, kills AIDS-infected cells.preserving healthy cells.
the work would represent a major advance in research on acquired immune deficiency syndrome.further experiments are successful.
Two Japanese scientists said they discovered an antibody that, in laboratory test-tube experiments, kills AIDS-infected cells while preserving healthy cells.several analysts and Japanese scientists familiar with the study, which was announced at a conference in Nagoya yesterday, expressed skepticism over the significance of the results.
But several analysts and Japanese scientists familiar with the study expressed skepticism over the significance of the results.the researchers themselves acknowledged they still must do much more work before they can say whether the treatment would actually cure humans.
If further experiments are successful, the work would represent a major advance in research on acquired immune deficiency syndrome.they must do much more work before they can say whether the treatment would actually cure humans.
they still must do much more work.they can say whether the treatment would actually cure humans.
by recognizing an antigen called a Fas-antigen.The antibody kills the cell.
their experiments showed that the antibody wiped out an average of 60% of AIDS-infected cells within three days..In some of the experiments, it killed almost all the infected cells.fewer than 10% of the healthy cells were killed.
their experiments showed that the antibody wiped out an average of 60% of AIDS-infected cells within three days..In some of the experiments, it killed almost all the infected cells.fewer than 10% of the healthy cells were killed.
their experiments showed that the antibody wiped out an average of 60% of AIDS-infected cells within three days..In some of the experiments, it killed almost all the infected cells Meanwhile, fewer than 10% of the healthy cells were killed.they must do more laboratory tests, then experiment on animals.
they must still do more laboratory tests.experiment on animals.
The announcement got wide exposure in the Japanese media, and even moved some pharmaceutical stocks yesterday.I'm not so optimistic of its future use in therapeutic methods.
some infected cells may not have the relevant antigen.and wouldn't be killed even after exposure to the antibody.
the antibody could potentially kill all infected cells.there were still several uncertainties, particularly regarding possible side effects.
the antibody could potentially kill all infected cells.there were several uncertainties, particularly regarding possible side effects.
Our antibody specifically killed infected cells at a very low dose.it can also kill other cells.
Our antibody specifically killed infected cells at a very low dose.but it can kill other cells.
AIDS isn't considered a widespread problem in Japan.many companies have poured substantial resources into research in recent years, hoping to cash in on a possible cure.
about 35 projects are currently under way in Japan.that Japanese researchers in the past year have made available three possible cures to American researchers for clinical tests.
that the Japanese will present at least three more drugs for human testing.scientists from the two countries meet again in January in New Orleans.
A Wellcome spokesman declined to comment on the discovery of the antibody in Japan.Andrew Porter, a drug-industry analyst at Nikko Securities Co. in London, said if the product were to be successfully developed it would represent "a potential threat to the long-term viability of Retrovir.
it would represent "a potential threat to the long-term viability of Retrovir.the product were to be successfully developed.
of which seven million of the shares will be offered in the U.S.1,500,000 shares will be offered overseas, via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets (domestic) and Kidder, Peabody & Co. (international).
of which 1,657,736 shares will be sold by the company.1,342,264 will be sold by holders, via Montgomery Securities and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp.
The United Kingdom carrier had planned the issue to help finance its $750 million purchase of a 15% stake in UAL.British Airways withdrew from the UAL labor-management buy-out plan last Friday, after the group failed to get bank financing for its $6.79 billion buy-out.
But British Airways withdrew from the UAL labor-management buy-out plan last Friday.the group failed to get bank financing for its $6.79 billion buy-out.
its shareholders accepted only 6.3% of the convertible capital bonds.that the rest of the issue will be taken up by underwriters.
the company was "obviously disappointed that the issue was not taken up.it would have been unreasonable to expect a better result given the volatility of the stock market since the launch of the issue.
A #320 million ($508 million) British Airways PLC rights issue flopped badly -- the victim of recent market turbulence and the collapse of the buy-out bid for United Airlines' parent, UAL Corp.except for the embarrassment, British Air will emerge relatively unscathed from the flopped issue.
In any case, he added, "most institutions probably won't sell" the bonds.instead of buying the UAL stake, the U.K. carrier will be able to reduce its high debt level and build an acquisition war chest.
It gives them some cash in the back pocket for when they want to do something.British Air is continuing to negotiate with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines about each acquiring a 20% stake in Sabena World Airlines, the air transport subsidiary of the Belgian national airline.
But except for the embarrassment, British Air will emerge relatively unscathed from the flopped issue.The failed rights issue should have a modest impact on British Air shares.
seen.the company announced the rights issue in late September.
In late trading on London's Stock Exchange yesterday, the shares were off three pence at 194 pence.because British Air is issuing convertible bonds rather than ordinary shares, the share price won't be directly hurt by any surplus left with underwriters after they try to sell the issue in the open market.
And the share price won't be directly hurt by any surplus left with underwriters after they try to sell the issue in the open market.British Air is issuing convertible bonds rather than ordinary shares.
And the share price won't be directly hurt by any surplus left with underwriters.they try to sell the issue in the open market.
But except for the embarrassment, British Air will emerge relatively unscathed from the flopped issue.British Air's withdrawal from the UAL buy-out could have further repercussions.
Six months ago, as some personnel specialists saw it, a perception that President Bush really cared about fair employment was prodding top management to raise hiring goals for females, blacks and other minorities.what they said was eight years of Reagan-era neglect.
The perception lingers.so far there's little evidence the "new urgency" is trickling down to the managers who actually do hiring.
The recruiting "hasn't materialized," asserts Jeffrey Christian, who runs a search agency.Samuel Hall, Howard University's placement director, doesn't see it.
Samuel Hall, Howard University's placement director, also doesn't see it.he questions the White House dedication.
an increase in searches for minority candidates.some of the activity may reflect a rush to get "numbers in order" for end-of-year reports.
Many companies have set up machinery to assure workers a fair shake.At most firms it's the immediate supervisor who decides the merit increases subordinates will be paid.
Unocal Corp. 's top management sets guidelines.line supervisors slice up the merit pie.
At Chemfix Technology Inc., each supervisor's recommendation must be approved by the next boss up the line.and sanctioned by a salary review committee.
JAPANESE COMPANIES fare best in U.S.they give Americans more say.
the companies earn more and win a bigger market share.their American employees get a voice in planning, product development and design, including decision-making back in Japan.
by adopting the American practice of hiring managers on the "open market.In Japan companies tend to develop their own talent and promote from within.
many Japanese companies err in the U.S. by adopting the American practice of hiring managers on the "open market.of keeping their cards too close to their vests.
Americans stay longer with Japanese firms than American companies.they think promotions are limited.
I've been recruiting every single day.it's been identified that many AIDS patients come from the inner city.
She was the only staff physician available to treat AIDS patients last summer.now she has the help of only two doctors part time.
FEAR OF AIDS hinders hiring at few hospitals.Part of the problem may reflect a general unwillingness to work with the urban poor.
it hasn't had any problem recruiting.a nurse contracted the virus while injecting an AIDS patient.
even after a nurse contracted the virus.injecting an AIDS patient.
the industry's volume has soared tenfold since 1980, to $350 million a year.somebody loses on the expected repeal of Section 89, the benefits test fought by most employers.
that a "Red-Green" coalition of Social Democrats and Greens could edge out Chancellor Kohl's coalition in the December 1990 national election.support for the Republicans continues to spread.
for acts committed.not British citizens.
we could become known as a haven for war criminals.we're not careful.
this marked the first time the unit and product were named.Italy's investigation of whether Olivetti had violated Western export-control rules had previously been made known.
Italy's Foreign Ministry said it is investigating exports to the Soviet Union by an Ing..C. Olivetti & Co. subsidiary called OCN-PPL that makes numerically controlled machine tools.Although Italy's investigation of whether Olivetti had violated Western export-control rules had been made known.
The U.S. is worried about the convertibility of Olivetti's machine tools to military use.OCN-PPL, of which Olivetti sold the majority interest last year, "doesn't make equipment that has the type of precision necessary for sophisticated productions.
Conservationists say that drift-net fishing threatens to wipe out much of the world's tuna stocks in a few years.the Japanese Fisheries Association criticized moves to ban the practice in international waters.
About 8,000 National Union of Mineworkers members resumed their strike against De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd.further negotiations to settle a wage dispute broke down.
the company had offered to increase the minimum wage by 18%.the union was demanding 26.6%.
De Beers offered 17% and the union wanted 37.6%.the two parties resumed talks last week.
Before the two parties resumed talks last week, De Beers offered 17%.the union wanted 37.6%.
15 major cases have been found.the first fraud was discovered in July 1986 at an office of the People's Bank of China in Shenzhen.
The number of computers has mushroomed in recent years, with 10,000 in use, as well as 30,000 miniature models.security systems, effective management controls and regulations to govern their use have not kept pace, the People's Daily said.
Besides money, criminals have also used computers to steal secrets and intelligence, the newspaper said.it gave no more details.
to take care.photographing earthquake damage in San Francisco.
About one-third of the fatality increase is attributed to greater travel.about two-thirds is attributed to other factors {primarily to greater speed}," according to NHTSA.
that deaths on urban interstate highways rose 7% between 1986 and last year.fatalities on non-interstate roads were about the same in 1988 as in 1986.
In states that raised the speed limit on rural interstates, the fatality rate rose about 18% to 1.7 deaths per 100 million miles traveled between 1986 and 1988.the fatality rate in the states that retained the 55 mph limit was 0.9 last year, the same as in 1986.
Public preference is important.product names should match up,.And firms that find they're lagging behind.Should now take steps to ketchup.
Public preference is important,.So product names should match up.firms that find they're lagging behind.Should now take steps to ketchup.
As of June 30, 1989 -- the day our past fiscal year came to a close -- only 4.1% of the Bank's portfolio was affected by arrears of over six months.the Bank follows a prudent provisioning policy and has set aside $800 million against possible loan losses.
The reality is that Bank loans have been linked to policy improvements for 40 years.Our traditional project loans have supported sensible energy pricing in the power sector, sound interest-rate policies in the credit area and the operation of public utilities as efficient, autonomous agencies.
Another of Mr. Roberts's criticisms is that Bank lending has done more harm than good "by implanting the wrong incentives and deflecting energy away from economic development.Mr. Roberts takes a swipe at the Bank's adjustment lending.
These are not the actions of a development agency wed to central planning and to the concentration of investment decisions in the hands of government.they reflect the Bank's time-tested, pragmatic approach, which aims at ensuring that developing countries put their scarce resources to the best possible use.
the agency will sell 589 midsized supermarkets and several food-production plants and warehouses beginning early next year..The agency will withdraw from the production of nine food products, maintaining production of the two most important ones, corn and milk.Conasupo will cut back subsidies to producers of nonessential farm products and close retail outlets in wealthy neighborhoods.
Private-sector leaders praised the Conasupo restructuring.most economists doubt the streamlining would cut deeply into Conasupo government subsidy, which largely goes to reduce consumer prices for corn and milk.
The agency won't allow mushrooms that were canned or packed in brine at any Chinese plant to enter the U.S.satisfactory sanitation-control measures are implemented in China to prevent" bacterial contamination.
On May 19, the FDA began detaining Chinese mushrooms in 68-ounce cans.more than 100 people in Mississippi, New York and Pennsylvania became ill from eating tainted mushrooms.
that the Beijing government has taken "many effective measures" to stop the mushroom contamination.and is investigating the underlying causes.
Through these investigations we do not focus on the street drug user.rather we target and attack major drug-trafficking organizations that control a large segment of the drug market.
Through these investigations we do not focus on the street drug user.but we target and attack major drug-trafficking organizations that control a large segment of the drug market.
through not only these major trafficking investigations.but by providing a full range of services through various task forces and our contacts with local police squads handling drug-related crimes.
The FBI's role is to complement the D.C. initiative through not only these major trafficking investigations, but also by providing a full range of services through various task forces and our contacts with local police squads handling drug-related crimes.we have agents assigned full time to assist the MPD in drug-related crimes such as homicide and other crimes of violence.
Under the new terms, New World will still pay $540 million for Ramada's hotel business, subject to adjustment at closing.Ramada will now reimburse New World for $10 million in expenses.
Prime will still manage Ramada's domestic franchise system.the sale closes.
Revised terms call for each Ramada common share to be exchanged for $1 in cash, subject to possible reduction, and one share of Aztar common stock.Shareholders will receive one cent per share for the redemption of preferred stock purchase rights.
Bond prices took the high road.stock prices took the low road as worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market.
Bond prices took the high road and stock prices took the low road.worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 26.23 points to 2662.91 in sluggish trading.long-term Treasury bonds staged a modest rally, with prices on most issues rising about half a point, or $5 for each $1,000 face amount.
A sinking economy depresses corporate earnings.and stock prices.
A sinking economy depresses corporate earnings and thus stock prices.it buoys bond prices as interest rates fall.
but it buoys bond prices.interest rates fall.
they think durable goods orders fell about 1%, compared with a 3.9% gain in August.that growth in the third quarter slowed to about 2.3% from the second quarter's 2.5%.
The stock market's decline, coming after a record weekly gain of 119.88 points, surprised some investors.A.C. Moore, director of research at Argus Research, said last week's rally was a reflex reaction to the Oct. 13 stock market rout.
Overall the trend in stock prices will be down.the economy weakens.
Corporate profits are going to decrease faster than interest rates will fall.the probability is that we'll see negative economic growth in the fourth quarter.
that a deteriorating economy is worrisome.the real concern among stock investors is that some new problem will crop up in the junk bond market.
that the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1/2 percentage points in either direction.pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire.
For each poll, the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire, the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1/2 percentage points in either direction..The margin of error for subgroups -- for example, married women with children at home -- would be larger.in any survey, there is always the chance that other factors such as question wording could introduce errors into the findings.
that discount deals for big customers would be "dumb.you will go to Detroit because you have to go to Detroit whether the fare is $175, $275 or $375.
because "you will go to Detroit.you have to go to Detroit.
he of all people must realize our society relies on competition to keep prices at a competitive level.Mr. Crandall is correct.
it did not respond.I asked American Airlines for its side of the story for use in my MBA class.
it created a new Custom Marketing Group that will offer advertisers special rates for combination packages in its magazines, such as Ladies Home Journal and Better Homes and Gardens.the group will create custom-designed media such as cookbooks, newspaper inserts and videos for ad campaigns.
Bill Murphy, director of the new marketing unit, said Meredith is negotiating other large-scale packages with leading companies in several product categories.he wouldn't disclose their names.
but for now they are the quickest offering the most extensive plan.They may get passed up when other publishers get their acts together.
They may get passed up later when other publishers get their acts together.for now they are the quickest offering the most extensive plan.
Five years ago, magazine publishers would simply bid on an advertiser's big ad schedule for their magazine.the marketplace changed.
It's So Easy to Get Burned.Buying a Small Firm.
The economic loss, jobs lost, anguish, frustration and humiliation are beyond measure.most of these are absolutely unnecessary.
Your article points out the traps people fall into.when reviewing those traps one sees just about all of them could have been avoided.
but one sees just about all of them could have been avoided.reviewing those traps.
An accountant did not review the seller's books.buying a business.
Their "secret" is that they gather a small group of advisers around them, listen to what they have to say, prepare a business plan.they are on their way.
Their "secret" is that they gather a small group of advisers around them, listen to what they have to say, prepare a business plan.they are on their way.
The changes come.Reebok is seeking to regain momentum in the athletic-shoe business against rivals Nike Inc. and L.A. Gear Inc.
it is going to have people coming and going.you see any company that grows as fast as Reebok did.
who had been president of Faberge Inc. 's Faberge U.S.A. division.joining Reebok in September 1988.
Magazine publishers are facing spiraling costs and a glut of new titles.even a raft of recent failures isn't stopping them from launching new publications.
At the American Magazine Conference here, publishers are plenty worried about the industry's woes.they are also talking about new magazines.
At the American Magazine Conference here, publishers are plenty worried about the industry's woes.But they are talking about new magazines.
New York-based Hearst Corp. this fall plans to publish its first issue of 9 Months, a magazine for expectant mothers, and has already launched American Home.Time Warner Inc. is developing a spinoff of Time magazine aimed at kids, on the heels of its successful Sports Illustrated for Kids.
Over the past four years, the number of consumer magazines has increased by an average of 80 magazines annually, according to Donald Kummerfeld, president of the Magazine Publishers of America.despite the recent tough advertising climate, industry figures released at the meeting here indicate things may be turning around.
the industry in general is doing well compared with the newspaper industry.for some magazines categories a tough advertising climate persists.
the magazine publishing industry remains a risky business.some magazines are thriving.
Within the same nine months, News Corp. closed down In Fashion, a once-promising young woman's fashion magazine, Drake Publications Inc. has folded the long-troubled Venture magazine.Lang Communications has announced Ms. magazine, after 17 years, will no longer carry advertising as of January.
Within the same nine months, News Corp. closed down In Fashion, a once-promising young woman's fashion magazine, Drake Publications Inc. has folded the long-troubled Venture magazine, and Lang Communications has announced Ms. magazine, after 17 years, will no longer carry advertising as of January..Lang is cutting costs and will attempt to operate the magazine with only subscription revenue.American Health Partners, publisher of American Health magazine, is deep in debt, and Owen Lipstein, founder and managing partner, is being forced to sell the magazine to Reader's Digest Association Inc.
Within the same nine months, News Corp. closed down In Fashion, a once-promising young woman's fashion magazine, Drake Publications Inc. has folded the long-troubled Venture magazine, and Lang Communications has announced Ms. magazine, after 17 years, will no longer carry advertising as of January..Lang is cutting costs and will attempt to operate the magazine with only subscription revenue.American Health Partners, publisher of American Health magazine, is deep in debt, and Owen Lipstein, founder and managing partner, is being forced to sell the magazine to Reader's Digest Association Inc.
Meanwhile, American Health Partners, publisher of American Health magazine, is deep in debt.Owen Lipstein, founder and managing partner, is being forced to sell the magazine to Reader's Digest Association Inc.
Magazines can no longer be considered institutions Publishers will find that some magazines have served their purpose and should die.There are indications that the number of magazine entrepreneurs are dwindling.
that the number of magazine entrepreneurs, traditionally depended upon to break new ground with potentially risky start-ups, are dwindling.Some entrepreneurs are still active.
They could be old or new.they are magazines whose editorial quality needs to be improved.
The price wasn't disclosed.an executive of LJN Toys Ltd., the MCA unit, said the closely held Buddy L had annual sales in excess of $20 million.
Federal officials arranged a merger with European-American Bank & Trust to avert the closedown.federal insurance protected the bank's 631,163 depositors.
Massive withdrawals followed.there was a brief rescue attempt, with political undertones, including $1.77 billion in Federal Reserve loans.
In June 1980, Michele Sindona -- an Italian financier who in July 1972 had bought a 22% block of Franklin's stock from Loews Corp., headed by Laurence A. Tisch -- was sentenced to 25 years in prison.being convicted of fraud and perjury.
Sindona, the onetime Vatican financial adviser with reported links to the Mafia, died on March 22, 1986, at age 65.drinking cyanide-laced coffee in an Italian prison.
Sindona, the onetime Vatican financial adviser with reported links to the Mafia, died on March 22, 1986, at age 65.drinking cyanide-laced coffee in an Italian prison.
It happened.he was sentenced to life in prison for ordering a 1979 murder.
In a nondescript office building south of Los Angeles, human behavior is being monitored, dissected.and, manipulated.
A squiggly line snakes across a video screen, gyrating erratically.subjects with hand-held computers register their second-by-second reactions to a speaker's remarks.
how people's opinions were shaped.how they can be reshaped.
It advised the National Football League in its largely successful defense of antitrust charges by the United States Football League.it helped win defense verdicts in product-liability suits involving scores of products, ranging from Firestone 500 tires to the anti-nausea drug Bendectin.
Recently, Litigation Sciences helped Pennzoil Co. win a $10.5 billion jury verdict against Texaco Inc..It advised the National Football League in its largely successful defense of antitrust charges by the United States Football League..And it helped win defense verdicts in product-liability suits involving scores of products, ranging from Firestone 500 tires to the anti-nausea drug Bendectin.Litigation Sciences has more than doubled in size in the past two years.
Largely as a result, Litigation Sciences has more than doubled in size in the past two years.competitors are being spawned almost daily.
In real life, jurors may not always work that way.some court observers question why they shouldn't be encouraged to do so rather than be programmed not to.
The notion they try to sell is that juries don't make decisions rationally.the effort is also being made to try and cause jurors not to decide things rationally.
The notion they try to sell is that juries don't make decisions rationally.But the effort is being made to try and cause jurors not to decide things rationally.
I find it troubling.that consultants can be very effective.
Litigation consulting is, as New York trial attorney Donald Zoeller puts it, "highly manipulative.But Mr. Zoeller acknowledges that consultants can be very effective.
where it's almost malpractice not to use them.the case is large enough.
The affluent people and the corporations can buy it, the poor radicals {in political cases} get it free.everybody in between is at a disadvantage and that's not the kind of system we want.
The affluent people and the corporations can buy it, the poor radicals {in political cases} get it free, and everybody in between is at a disadvantage.that's not the kind of system we want.
Sophisticated trial consulting grew, ironically, from the radical political movements of the 1960s and 1970s.finding its more lucrative calling in big commercial cases.
The researchers discovered that Episcopalians, Presbyterians, Methodists and fundamantalist Protestants were nearly always against the defendants.The defense learned that college-educated people were uncharacteristically conservative about the Vietnam War.
In that case, a group of left-leaning sociologists interviewed 252 registered voters around Harrisburg..The researchers discovered that Episcopalians, Presbyterians, Methodists and fundamantalist Protestants were nearly always against the defendants; the lawyers resolved to try to keep them off the jury..The defense also learned that college-educated people were uncharacteristically conservative about the Vietnam War..A more blue-collar panel became a second aim.that carefully picked jury deadlocked with a 10-2 vote to acquit, and the prosecution decided not to retry the case.
Ultimately, that carefully picked jury deadlocked with a 10-2 vote to acquit.the prosecution decided not to retry the case.
they were eager to know if the jury was keeping up with them.the trial progressed.
to hire six people who would mirror the actual jury demographically, sit in on the trial and report their reactions to him.He briefed Messrs..Boies and Barr.
to hire six people who would mirror the actual jury demographically, sit in on the trial and report their reactions to him.who had the chance to tilt their next day's presentation.
The solution devised by the professor was to hire six people who would mirror the actual jury demographically, sit in on the trial and report their reactions to him.the "shadow" jury was born.
what you do.you give an opening argument to your wife or a friend and get some response to it.
It's often wrong.it's better than consulting an Indian rain dancer.
Changing the outcome of the trial is what really matters.to the uninitiated, some of the firm's approaches may seem chillingly manipulative.
Theoretically, jurors are supposed to weigh the evidence in a case logically and objectively.that they start with firmly entrenched attitudes and try to shoe-horn the facts of the case to fit their views.
depressed, underemployed people are far more likely to grant them.it is a case in which the client seeks punitive damages, for example.
its job is usually to help the lawyers identify and remove such people from the jury.Litigation Sciences generally represents the defense.
who believe that most people, including victims, get what they deserve.Such people typically hold negative attitudes toward the physically handicapped, the poor, blacks and women.
the firm will help find them.a client needs prejudiced jurors.
We don't control the facts.any lawyer will select the facts and the strategy to employ.
the consultants often continue to determine what the jurors' attitudes are likely to be.a jury is selected.
she had been injured.she slipped in a pool.
she had been injured.she slipped in a pool.
In one personal-injury case, a woman claimed she had been injured when she slipped in a pool.the fall didn't explain why one of her arms was discolored bluish.
Pre-trial polling helps the consultants develop a profile of the right type of juror Once a jury is selected, the consultants often continue to determine what the jurors' attitudes are likely to be and help shape the lawyers' presentation accordingly.Slick graphics, pre-tested for effectiveness, play a major role in Litigation Sciences' operation.
that people absorb information better and remember it longer.they receive it visually.
Supporters acknowledge that the process aims to manipulate.they insist that the best trial lawyers have always employed similar tactics.
They may not have been able to articulate it all.they did it.
that all's fair in the adversary system.no one tampers with the evidence.
as when one lawyer paid a consultant (not at Litigation Sciences) $70,000 to interview a jury after a big trial.and read more informative interviews with the same jurors in The American Lawyer magazine.
Some litigators scoff at the notion that a sociologist knows more than they do about what makes a jury tick.most lawyers accept that the marketplace has spoken.
But most lawyers accept that the marketplace has spoken.the question remains whether the jury system can maintain its integrity while undergoing such a skillful massage.
whether the jury system can maintain its integrity.undergoing such a skillful massage.
There's no reason to believe that juries rule inappropriately.the last thing you want to do is manipulate the subconscious to make them think better..What you then do is you make them think inappropriately.
manipulate the subconscious to make them think better.What you do is you make them think inappropriately.
manipulate the subconscious to make them think better.What you do is you make them think inappropriately.
he suggests that courts sharply limit the number of jurors that lawyers can remove from the jury panel through so-called peremptory challenges -- exclusions that don't require explanations.Mr. Etzioni suggests forbidding anyone from gathering background information about the jurors.
Some courts release names and addresses.researchers can drive by houses, look up credit ratings, and even question neighbors.
forbidding anyone from gathering background information about the jurors.psychologists should not be allowed to analyze jurors' personalities.
The more extensive the voir dire, the easier you make it for that kind of research to be effective.courts should lend themselves to that.
which make computers mainly aimed at a wide range of engineering and scientific needs.Silicon Graphics has targeted a specific niche since its inception in 1982, which has been dubbed by some as "motion-picture computing.
it has emerged in recent years as a feared adversary in this graphics portion of the workstation market.Silicon Graphics is much smaller than Digital, Hewlett and Sun.
Though Silicon Graphics is much smaller than Digital, Hewlett and Sun, it has emerged in recent years as a feared adversary in this graphics portion of the workstation market.the company has made it tough on competitors by offering a stream of desktop computers at sharply lower prices.
A year ago, Silicon Graphics introduced a model priced at $15,000 -- almost as cheap as mainstream workstations that don't offer special graphics features.Silicon Graphics plans to unveil even less expensive machines in the near future.
Not to be outdone, George Bush wants CFCs banished altogether by the year 2000, a goal endorsed at an 80-nation U.N. environmental meeting in Helsinki in the spring.even though by some estimates it might cost the world as much as $100 billion between now and the year 2000 to convert to other coolants, foaming agents and solvents and to redesign equipment for these less efficient substitutes, the Montreal Protocol's legions of supporters say it is worth it.
But the Montreal Protocol's legions of supporters say it is worth it.by some estimates it might cost the world as much as $100 billion between now and the year 2000 to convert to other coolants, foaming agents and solvents and to redesign equipment for these less efficient substitutes.
that CFCs are damaging the earth's stratospheric ozone layer, which screens out some of the sun's ultraviolet rays.if something isn't done earthlings will become ever more subject to sunburn and skin cancer.
Hence earthlings will become ever more subject to sunburn and skin cancer.something isn't done.
In the kind of literature I read I come across countervailing opinions quite frequently.the nature of the problem is such that many others feel it has to be addressed soon, before all the evidence is in.
it has to be addressed soon.all the evidence is in.
We can't afford to wait.does it have to be so soon.
that the amount of ozone depletion would be only 10% by the middle of the next century.CFCs were released into the atmosphere at an accelerating rate.
that even if CFCs were released into the atmosphere at an accelerating rate, the amount of ozone depletion would be only 10% by the middle of the next century.there are questions, particularly among atmospheric scientists who know this subject best, about the ability of anyone to know what in fact is happening to the ozone layer.
that the chlorine in them is capable of interfering with the process through which ultraviolet rays split oxygen molecules and form ozone.CFCs rise from earth to stratosphere.
It is generally agreed that when CFCs rise from earth to stratosphere, the chlorine in them is capable of interfering with the process through which ultraviolet rays split oxygen molecules and form ozone.ozone creation is a very large-scale natural process and the importance of human-generated CFCs in reducing it is largely a matter of conjecture.
But ozone creation is a very large-scale natural process.the importance of human-generated CFCs in reducing it is largely a matter of conjecture.
The ozone layer is constantly in motion.and very hard to measure.
that there is a hole in the layer over Antarctica that expands or contracts from year to year.that there are very few refrigerators in Antarctica.
But it is at least worthy of some note that there are very few refrigerators in Antarctica.surely someone has noticed that household refrigerators are closed systems, running for many years without either the CFC gas or the insulation ever escaping.
that why not use them.substitutes are available.
Mr. Teagan cites a list of substitutes.none, so far, match the nonflammable, nontoxic CFCs.
but none, so far, match the nonflammable, nontoxic CFCs.Butane and propane can be used as coolants but are flammable.
but none, so far, match the nonflammable, nontoxic CFCs.new lubricants will be needed to protect compressors from the new formulations, which, as with CFCs, are solvents.
that energy consumption will rise.the equipment designed to get along without CFCs is less efficient than current devices.
that if the equipment designed to get along without CFCs is less efficient than current devices, energy consumption will rise.that will worsen the greenhouse effect.
where the greenhouse was.they needed it.
Folks in the Midwest who just suffered a mid-October snowstorm may wonder where the greenhouse was when they needed it.let's not be flippant about grave risks.
of fighting environmental movements.and are trying to cash in on them.
that big companies are growing weary of fighting environmental movements and are trying instead to cash in on them.they never care to put it quite that way.
Du Pont, as it happens, has a potential substitute for CFCs.Imperial Chemical Industries of the U.K. has one, and is building a plant in Louisiana to produce it.
University professors and consultants with scientific credentials saw a huge market for their services evaporate.price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis and thus the demand for "alternative energy.
when price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis.and the demand for "alternative energy.
Environmental groups would soon go out of business were they not able to send out mailings describing the latest threat and asking for money to fight it..University professors and consultants with scientific credentials saw a huge market for their services evaporate when price decontrol destroyed the energy crisis and thus the demand for "alternative energy." They needed new crises to generate new grants and contracts.environmentalism has created a whole set of vested interests that fare better when there are many problems than when there are few.
that fare better.there are many problems.
that fare better.than there are few.
That tends to tilt the public debate toward "solutions.some of the most knowledgeable scientists are skeptical about the seriousness of the threats and the insistence of urgency.
the price would be cheap.they were really getting insurance against environmental disaster.
If they were really getting insurance against environmental disaster, the price would be cheap.if there is no impending threat, it can get to be very expensive.
But it can get to be very expensive.there is no impending threat.
small business got by fairly well.results were mixed in many states.
Five states -- Oregon, Rhode Island, New Hampshire, Iowa and Wisconsin -- passed bills to boost the minimum wage.measures in 19 other states were defeated.
Iowa's will be the second highest -- at $4.65 an hour in January 1992.small-business lobbyists won an exclusion for tiny concerns and a lower training rate.
The Illinois Legislature narrowly passed a parental-leave bill, which Gov. James Thompson vetoed.Iowa and Tennessee amended laws to require that employers pay for breast-cancer exams.
Similar proposals were defeated in at least 15 other states.small business has taken note of the growing number of close votes.
It's just a matter of time.the tide turns.
But small business has taken note of the growing number of close votes.small business is taking more "pro-active" steps to counter mandated leaves.
they favor a commission that would develop sample leave policies that employers could adopt.They support a tax credit for employers to offset the cost of hiring and training workers who temporarily replace employees on parental leave.
In San Francisco, small businesses are urging passage of a local initiative to build a new $95 million downtown baseball stadium.in Washington state, small business generally opposes an initiative to boost spending on children's programs by $360 million.
that an area-code switch Nov. 11 -- to 708 from the familiar 312 -- won't be without some costs.they alter stationery, among other things, and notify customers.
Small businesses in suburban Chicago are discovering that an area-code switch Nov. 11 -- to 708 from the familiar 312 -- won't be without some costs as they alter stationery, among other things, and notify customers.many owners plan to practice frugality -- crossing out the old code and writing in the new one until their stock runs out.
crossing out the old code and writing in the new one.their stock runs out.
Now some negotiated sales that meet a series of tests don't have to be pre-registered.franchisers no longer must pre-register sales to aspiring franchisees who qualify as "sophisticated purchasers.
With some new rules, state officials say they made it easier -- and faster -- to sell new franchises whose terms stray from those in state-registered contracts.critics consider the changes regressive.
California regulators historically have misinterpreted their law.negotiated sales that aren't pre-registered have been legal all along.
A new Maryland law frees store owners of liability.a customer trips or otherwise gets hurt on the way to the restroom.
About 400,000 commuters trying to find their way through the Bay area's quake-torn transportation system wedged cheek-to-jowl into subways, sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited forlornly for buses yesterday.it was a better-than-average Manhattan commute.
City officials feared widespread gridlock on the first day that normal business operations were resumed following last Tuesday's earthquake.in spite of a wind-driven rainstorm, gridlock never materialized.
But in spite of a wind-driven rainstorm, gridlock never materialized.the Bay Area Rapid Transit subway system carried 50% more passengers than normal.
mainly because the Bay Area Rapid Transit subway system carried 50% more passengers than normal.the two main bridges still connecting San Francisco with the East Bay didn't charge tolls, allowing traffic to zip through without stopping.
Moreover, the two main bridges still connecting San Francisco with the East Bay didn't charge tolls, allowing traffic to zip through without stopping.that traffic benefited from steps by major employers to get workers to come in at odd hours, or that many workers are still staying at home.
that traffic benefited from steps by major employers to get workers to come in at odd hours.that many workers are still staying at home.
Storm flooding caused back-ups on the freeway.many commuters had to find rides to BART's stations, because parking lots were full before dawn.
and many commuters had to find rides to BART's stations.parking lots were full before dawn.
About 400,000 commuters trying to find their way through the Bay area's quake-torn transportation system wedged cheek-to-jowl into subways, sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited forlornly for buses yesterday.while traffic was heavy early in the commute over the Golden Gate, by 8 a.m. it already had thinned out.
But by 8 a.m. it already had thinned out.traffic was heavy early in the commute over the Golden Gate.
a lot of people got scared and stayed home.yesterday's absenteeism at the bank holding company was no greater than on an average day.
At Pacific Telesis Group, flextime is left up to individual working groups.some of the telephone company's employees must be on-site during normal business hours.
Some individuals went to some lengths on their own to avoid the anticipated gridlock..One senior vice president at Bechtel said he got up at 3 a.m. to drive into San Francisco from the East Bay.transportation officials worry that such extraordinary measures and cooperation may not last.
about two-thirds of the motorists crossing the Golden Gate were alone, compared with the normal 70% rate..And some commuters, relieved by the absence of gridlock, were planning to return to their old ways.drivers who didn't use car pools were committing "an anti-social act.
about two-thirds of the motorists crossing the Golden Gate were alone, compared with the normal 70% rate.some commuters, relieved by the absence of gridlock, were planning to return to their old ways.
the human champion maneuvered Deep Thought, known for its attacking prowess, into a totally passive position.he unleashed his own, unstoppable, attack.
Playing black in the first game, the human champion maneuvered Deep Thought, known for its attacking prowess, into a totally passive position..Then he unleashed his own, unstoppable, attack.in the second game, with Mr. Kasparov advancing ferociously as white, D.T. offered feeble resistance and lost even faster.
he gave the machine a far worse drubbing than many expected.almost everybody at the playing site had been looking for the 26-year-old Soviet to beat the Pennsylvania-based computer.
he gave the machine a far worse drubbing than many expected.he called the outcome.
And he called the outcome.Mr. Kasparov strode into the playing hall.
he declared: "I'll be able to beat any computer for the next five years.he were Iron Mike, about to enter the ring with a 98-pound weakling.
Its chief builder, Taiwan-born Feng-hsiung Hsu, nicknamed his brainchild "the Weasel" for its tactical flair at wriggling out of horrible positions.D.T. has a prodigious and flawless memory, is utterly fearless, and couldn't be distracted by the sexy nude sculptures spread around the playing hall, in the New York Academy of Art.
D.T. also has a prodigious and flawless memory, is utterly fearless, and couldn't be distracted by the sexy nude sculptures spread around the playing hall, in the New York Academy of Art.D.T. never left home, Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, but communicated with its human handlers by telephone link.
They conceded that the odds favored Mr. Kasparov.they put their hope in D.T.'s recently enhanced capacity for examining positions -- up to a million per second, from 720,000.
but they put their hope in D.T.'s recently enhanced capacity for examining positions -- up to a million per second, from 720,000.the handlers mistakenly stuck with silicon chips; they needed kryptonite.
This became apparent.game one, a Sicilian Defense by Mr. Kasparov, proceeded.
No human can examine millions of moves.Mr. Kasparov, using his ineffably powerful brain, consistently found very good ones.
After eight moves by each side, the board was the same as in a game in which Nigel Short of Great Britain fought the champion to a draw in 1980.the computer didn't play Mr. Short's ninth move, a key pawn thrust, and its position deteriorated rapidly.
But the computer didn't play Mr. Short's ninth move, a key pawn thrust.its position deteriorated rapidly.
D.T. made a second-rate rook maneuver at move 13.it put a knight offside on move 16.
Bishops usually are worth slightly more than knights.in this case Mr. Kasparov was left with a very dangerous knight and D.T.'s surviving bishop was reduced to passivity.
but in this case Mr. Kasparov was left with a very dangerous knight.D.T.'s surviving bishop was reduced to passivity.
and D.T.'s surviving bishop was reduced to passivity.it looked more like a pawn, a "tall pawn.
the computer thought it was only, in effect, one-half of a pawn down.most spectators thought its position hopeless.
from resigning.humans would have.
Mr. Kasparov maneuvered the knight to a dominant outpost.D.T. shuffled its king back and forth in a defensive crouch.
Mr. Kasparov maneuvered the knight to a dominant outpost.He launched a kingside storm, sacrificing a pawn to denude D.T.'s king.
This left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies.it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn, to the neglect of kingside development.
As early as move six, Mr. Kasparov deviated from a well-known sequence of moves, developing a knight instead of making a standard bishop attack against the computer's advanced knight..This left the computer with a broader range of plausible replies -- and it immediately blundered by moving a queenside pawn, to the neglect of kingside development.In a new position just after the opening, a computer will have serious problems," Mr. Kasparov said.
In such positions you have to create something new.the computer isn't able to do that right now.
Greedily, it grabbed a pawn, at the cost of facing a brutal attack.when a defensive move was called for, D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats.
And D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats.a defensive move was called for.
And D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move.and exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats.
And when a defensive move was called for, D.T. passed up an obvious pawn move and instead exposed its queen to immediate tactical threats.Mr. Kasparov remarked that "even a weak club player" would have avoided the queen move.
Mr. Kasparov's continuation was slower.but just as deadly.
In a hopeless position, the computer resigned rather than make its 37th move.Mr. Kasparov, to cheers and applause, marched back into the analysis room.
Undeterred, D.T.'s handlers vowed to press on.three of them will be building a successor machine for International Business Machines Corp.
Reaching for that extra bit of yield can be a big mistake.you don't understand what you're investing in.
Yields on five-year CDs at major banks were averaging about 7.45%.10-year Treasury notes were paying less than 8%.
The CD seemed like a great deal.nearly 3 1/2 years later, Merrill says the investment is worth about $43,000 -- an amount that represents an annual return of just over 2% on Dr. Blumenfeld's $40,000.
that the CD he bought for a retirement plan wasn't a plain vanilla CD.his Merrill broker put him in a zero-coupon CD.
part of the price Dr. Blumenfeld paid was a premium -- an additional amount on top of the CD's base value plus accrued interest that represented the CD's increased market value.the CD had an effective yield of 13.4% when it was issued in 1984, and interest rates in general had declined sharply since then.
Because the CD had an effective yield of 13.4%.it was issued in 1984.
Because the CD had an effective yield of 13.4% when it was issued in 1984.interest rates in general had declined sharply since then.
Now the thrift that issued the CD is insolvent.Dr. Blumenfeld has learned to his surprise that the premium isn't insured under federal deposit insurance.
The tip-off came.he opened a recent Merrill Lynch statement and found that the CD's "estimated current market value" had plummeted by $9,000 in a month.
he paid.he bought the CD.
that the $9,000 drop represented the current value of the premium he paid when he bought the CD.that the amount wasn't insured.
that he knew he was getting a zero-coupon CD.that he had previously invested in TIGRs (Treasury Income Growth Receipts), a type of zero-coupon Treasury security sold by Merrill Lynch.
that he knew he was getting a zero-coupon CD and that he had previously invested in TIGRs (Treasury Income Growth Receipts), a type of zero-coupon Treasury security sold by Merrill Lynch.he didn't understand he was buying the CD on the secondary market, and he contends his broker never fully explained the risks.
he didn't understand he was buying the CD on the secondary market.his broker never fully explained the risks.
the difference . . . is not insured.the price paid for a CD purchased in the secondary market . . . is higher than the accreted value in the case of zero-coupon CDs.
Computations involving zero-coupon CDs are more complicated.you should discuss any questions you may have with your financial consultant.
Those officials say there was full disclosure of the risks in a "fact sheet" sent to all CD investors with their confirmation of sale.Merrill Lynch has agreed that if the thrift that issued Dr. Blumenfeld's CD, Peoples Heritage Federal Savings & Loan Association in Salina, Kan., is liquidated and the CD terminated, the brokerage firm would cover the premium Dr. Blumenfeld paid.
that the brokerage firm would cover the premium Dr. Blumenfeld paid.the thrift that issued Dr. Blumenfeld's CD, Peoples Heritage Federal Savings & Loan Association in Salina, Kan., is liquidated and the CD terminated.
if the thrift that issued Dr. Blumenfeld's CD, Peoples Heritage Federal Savings & Loan Association in Salina, Kan., is liquidated.the CD terminated.
it's impossible to estimate how many investors are in Dr. Blumenfeld's situation.the firm has received only one other complaint about premiums on the secondary market in three years.
Zero-coupon CDs are only a small portion of the $1 trillion-plus in CDs outstanding.those purchased on the secondary market are an even smaller part of the total.
Zero-coupon CDs are only a small portion of the $1 trillion-plus in CDs outstanding, and those purchased on the secondary market are an even smaller part of the total.there are several billion dollars of zero-coupon CDs with various maturities outstanding.
income tax is payable in the year interest is accrued.interest isn't actually paid until maturity.
Most zero-coupon CDs are in maturities of six to nine years.they usually double in value by maturity.
and Dr. Blumenfeld has learned to his surprise that the premium isn't insured under federal deposit insurance.investors who bought zero-coupon CDs in the secondary market aren't the only ones who may be surprised to learn the full amount of their investments isn't insured.
But investors who bought zero-coupon CDs in the secondary market aren't the only ones who may be surprised to learn the full amount of their investments isn't insured.People who paid a premium for standard CDs purchased on the secondary market could find that those premiums aren't insured if the institutions that issued the CDs failed.
that those premiums aren't insured.the institutions that issued the CDs failed.
that those premiums aren't insured if the institutions that issued the CDs failed.those premiums are usually far smaller than on zero-coupon CDs, and the simpler pricing structure of a standard CD makes it more apparent when a premium is paid.
However, those premiums are usually far smaller than on zero-coupon CDs.the simpler pricing structure of a standard CD makes it more apparent when a premium is paid.
and the simpler pricing structure of a standard CD makes it more apparent.a premium is paid.
Whatever the case investors shouldn't have to worry about the uninsured premium issue.the bank or thrift that issued the CD is closed and its deposits paid off before maturity or transferred to another institution at a lower rate.
unless the bank or thrift that issued the CD is closed.its deposits paid off before maturity or transferred to another institution at a lower rate.
he's satisfied that his problem has been resolved.he's learned a lesson.
Americans are drinking less.young professionals from Australia to West Germany are rushing to buy premium-brand American vodka, brandy and other spirits.
but young professionals from Australia to West Germany are rushing to buy premium-brand American vodka, brandy and other spirits.many are snubbing the scotch preferred by their parents and opting for bourbon, the sweet firewater from the Kentucky countryside.
With U.S. liquor consumption declining steadily, many American producers are stepping up their marketing efforts abroad.those efforts are paying off.
you have to be in America, Europe and the Far East.you want to be a player.
The internationalization of the industry has been hastened by foreign companies' acquisitions of many U.S. producers.In recent years Grand Metropolitan PLC of Britain acquired Heublein Inc., while another British company, Guinness PLC, took over United Distillers Group and Schenley Industries Inc.
In recent years, for example, Grand Metropolitan PLC of Britain acquired Heublein Inc.another British company, Guinness PLC, took over United Distillers Group and Schenley Industries Inc.
The internationalization of the industry has been hastened by foreign companies' acquisitions of many U.S. producers.the shift has also been fueled by necessity.
The internationalization of the industry has been hastened by foreign companies' acquisitions of many U.S. producers.But the shift has been fueled by necessity.
domestic spirits consumption fell 15% to 141.1 million cases in 1988 from 166 million cases in 1979.premium-brand spirits like Smirnoff vodka and Jack Daniel's whiskey are riding high in the U.S.
U.S. brandy exports more than doubled last year to 360,000 proof gallons, a standard industry measure, according to Jobson Beverage Alcohol Group, an industry association..Exports of rum surged 54% to 814,000 proof gallons..Mexico is the biggest importer of both rum and brandy from the U.S..Japan, the world's third-largest liquor market after the U.S. and Britain, helped American companies in April when it lowered its tax on imported spirits and levied a tax on many domestic products..California wineries, benefiting from lowered trade barriers and federal marketing subsidies, are expanding aggressively into Japan, as well as Canada and Great Britain..In Japan, the wineries are promoting their products' Pacific roots and courting restaurant and hotel chefs, whose recommendations carry weight..In Australia, Britain, Canada and Greece, Brown-Forman Corp. has increased its marketing of Southern Comfort Liqueur..Using cinema, television and print ads, the company pitches Southern Comfort as a grand old drink of the antebellum American South.The biggest foreign inroads have been made by bourbon.
trade agreements prohibit any other country from making bourbon.U.S. makers of vodka, rum and other spirits compete against powerhouses abroad.
All bourbon comes from Kentucky.Jack Daniel's Tennessee whiskey often is counted as bourbon because of similarity of taste.
While U.S. makers of vodka, rum and other spirits compete against powerhouses abroad, trade agreements prohibit any other country from making bourbon.just as vodka has acquired an upscale image in the U.S., bourbon has become fashionable in many foreign countries, a uniquely American product tied to frontier folklore.
Moreover bourbon has become fashionable in many foreign countries, a uniquely American product tied to frontier folklore.vodka has acquired an upscale image in the U.S.
Bourbon makes up just 1% of world-wide spirits consumption.it represented 57% of U.S. liquor exports last year, according to Jobson.
Some bourbon makers advertise abroad as they do at home.Jim Beam print ads strike different chords in different countries.
Capital Cities/ABC Inc. 's net income rose 29% on a modest 9% increase in revenue in the third quarter, mainly on strong advertising demand at its ABC television network operation.Demand for ads rose at the eight TV stations Capital Cities owns and at its 80%-owned ESPN sports cable channel.
Chairman Thomas S. Murphy cited Capital Cities' nine daily newspapers in explaining most of the gain.The parent publishes weeklies, shopping guides and specialty magazines.
that a monetary policy for this country that would return interest rates to the historical level of 4% or 5% would have not only an immediate impact on housing starts, the housing stock, our industry in America, the refurbishing of our industrial system, it would help the Third World economies considerably.it would particularly have a favorable impact upon our budget deficit.
Bush administration officials say inflation is under control..With economic growth slowing, they say they believe the Fed should ease credit even further.for the most part, officials have avoided expressing those views in public, fearing they would unnecessarily antagonize the Fed.
third-quarter earnings rose 14% on a hefty sales gain.domestic franchisees apparently didn't partake of the improvement.
Systemwide sales, which include sales at franchisee as well as company-owned stores, totaled $4.59 billion compared with $4.2 billion.sales for U.S. franchisees were flat at best on a per-store basis despite weak 1988 figures.
the actual decline may have been more.McDonald's menu prices rose this year.
McDonald's company-operated stores posted hefty gains for the nine months, with sales per company-operated unit rising $20,000.franchisees were having a tough time holding sales.
that the company often has better store locations than do its franchisees.aiding promotional efforts.
reduced labor costs helped boost margins.that kind of performance is sustainable.
Third-quarter sales in Europe were exceptionally strong.weaker foreign currencies reduced the company's earnings.
that as of Sept. 30 more stores were under construction overseas than a year ago.the opposite was true for domestic expansion.
The others will probably be delivered as well.Carnival will likely have to pay a higher price for them.
however, it will likely have an effect on the company's earnings as soon as the 1990 fiscal year.the ships aren't delivered.
There's a 99% chance that the Fantasy will be delivered close to schedule.If the ships aren't delivered it will likely have an effect on the company's earnings as soon as the 1990 fiscal year.
those per-share earnings estimates could be trimmed 15 cents or more.the ship fails to arrive.
Normally, a company pays a portion of the total cost of a ship.it reaches various stages of construction.
Normally, a company pays a portion of the total cost of a ship as it reaches various stages of construction.Carnival has already paid about $160 million of the total cost for Fantasy.
to seize the ship.the situation warrants it.
According to reports from Finland, Waertsilae Marine, 19%-owned by conglomerate Oy Waertsilae, filed for bankruptcy yesterday.the shipyard's contractors had started to demand bank guarantees.
that Ms. Garratt was forced to start bankruptcy-law proceedings.Jerell began withholding her royalty payments last month.
The quarter net was below analyst expectations.truck-parts sales didn't rebound in September from the summer doldrums as they usually do.
Eaton doesn't provide profit figures separately for each category.operating profit for vehicle parts as a group fell 26% to $51 million on an about 1% drop in sales to $488 million.
truck-fleet operators appear to be cautious about buying new trucks.they see how the economy behaves.
The truck sales slowdown reflects the general slowing in sales of consumer goods.the latest reports show a slight improvement rather than any indication of a downward spiral.
Between 1965 and 1985, Polish waters fit for human consumption dropped from 33% to 6% of all surface waters.those unfit even for industry use nearly doubled.
where enterprises are state-owned.penalties are paid by the government.
(a) Marxist devaluation of environmental resources, which are not produced by labor; (b) planned economies' inability to control pollution where enterprises are state-owned and penalties are paid by the government.(c) the continuing Stalinist emphasis on heavy industry for economic development, producing a far heavier and more wasteful use of energy and natural resources than in the West.
and the risk of bankruptcy.a business makes the wrong decisions.
The solutions they formally proposed included lead/sulfur taxes, conservation and recycling incentives, reforestation offsets, transferable pollution permits, an ecological bank to finance pollution-reduction credits, and debt-for-environment swaps.their most fundamental recommendation was to separate industry from the state, making it fully accountable for pollution control.
A revolution takes more than conference manifestos.skepticism was amply captured by a joke told by Poles at the conference.
The Russians are talking peace..The Palestinians are talking elections.the Poles are engaged in commerce.
The world must be coming to an end..The Russians are talking peace..The Palestinians are talking elections..And the Poles are engaged in commerce.the implications of such a shift to market approaches go well beyond the fact that Poland is already working on nationwide emissions trades to reduce smelter pollution, or that the Soviets plan to introduce marketable pollution permits in some republics next year.
that Poland is already working on nationwide emissions trades to reduce smelter pollution.that the Soviets plan to introduce marketable pollution permits in some republics next year.
Market-based pollution control may consume some capital.that would purchase state industries.
Market-based pollution control may consume some capital that would otherwise purchase state industries.it could also accelerate "marketization" by reinforcing industrial accountability, breaking up state monopolies, giving managers a stake in solutions, and ensuring that modernization is not reversible for failure to address environmental effects.
Market-based pollution control may consume some capital that would otherwise purchase state industries.But it could accelerate "marketization" by reinforcing industrial accountability, breaking up state monopolies, giving managers a stake in solutions, and ensuring that modernization is not reversible for failure to address environmental effects.
That means simple, clear rules that secure the first large blocks of reduction, deferring more complex issues such as risk.It means use of quantity-based pollution limits such as transferable permits, rather than price-based limits such as effluent fees.
That's.quota-trained managers will likely respond better to quantity than to price signals.
it was no accident that participants urged the free flow of information.Polish data have been freely available since 1980.
While Polish data have been freely available since 1980, it was no accident that participants urged the free flow of information.once information flows, public participation follows and repression becomes difficult to reimpose.
For public participation follows and repression becomes difficult to reimpose.information flows.
For once information flows, public participation follows.repression becomes difficult to reimpose.
that America has had a free market in goods but a planned economy for environmental protection.Poland represents the opposite.
It will be increasingly difficult for the U.S. to cling to command-and-control measures.even the East Bloc steps to a different drummer.
At the moment, Poland resembles 19th-century Pittsburgh more than a modern industrial society -- with antiquated production, inadequate environmental management, and little ecological awareness.the continuing pressures for free-market economics suggest the conference's vision was not all fantasy.
The drop in those and other technology stocks contributed to an 0.7% slide by the Nasdaq composite index.The nervousness about the technology stock outlook hurt the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which slipped about 1%.
the sell-off of technology stocks on low volume reflected a lack of conviction by investors.the selling was orderly.
Some of it was due to lower-than-expected earnings from leading companies.some of it also represented profit-taking by investors who have made big gains in some issues.
Some of it was due to lower-than-expected earnings from leading companies.But some of it represented profit-taking by investors who have made big gains in some issues.
Microsoft fell victim to profit-taking.it declined 2 1/8 to 83 1/8.
Among takeover stocks, Jefferson Smurfit jumped 1 1/4 to 42 1/2.SIBV-MS Holdings said the price to be paid to Jefferson Smurfit's minority holders has been raised to $43 a share.
That would be good news for the OTC market.many small growth stocks are traded there.
Nellcor, a maker of electronic patient monitoring systems, was up 3/4 to 16 7/8 on 258,000 shares yesterday.retailing issue Office Club was unchanged at 10 3/4 on 65,200 shares.
Nellcor, a maker of electronic patient monitoring systems, was up 3/4 to 16 7/8 on 258,000 shares yesterday, while retailing issue Office Club was unchanged at 10 3/4 on 65,200 shares..BizMart, another retailing stock, was off 3/8 to 8 1/4 on nearly 80,000 shares.Other favorites of growth-stock analysts and money managers had a mixed session.
Payco American, a credit collection concern, jumped 1 3/8 to 20 5/8 on volume of 93,000.Mail Boxes Etc., a private postal services company, advanced 1/2 to 23 1/2 on volume of 64,000.
Payco American, a credit collection concern, jumped 1 3/8 to 20 5/8 on volume of 93,000, and Mail Boxes Etc., a private postal services company, advanced 1/2 to 23 1/2 on volume of 64,000.Legent, a systems software stock, was down 1/2 to 29 3/4 on 39,300 shares.
Amgen rose 2 1/4 to 54 3/4 on almost 800,000 shares.CVB Financial jumped 4 to 41 on only 1,000 shares.
It's not that we don't know how to.we do.
It's that we don't want to.the reason we don't want to is that effective education would require us to relinquish some cherished metaphysical beliefs about human nature in general and the human nature of young people in particular, as well as to violate some cherished vested interests.
the near-unanimous answer would be, "Yes, of course.I were to ask a sample of American parents, "Do you wish the elementary schools to encourage creativity in your children.
If I were to ask a sample of American parents, "Do you wish the elementary schools to encourage creativity in your children?" the near-unanimous answer would be, "Yes, of course.what do we mean, specifically, by "creativity.
Fortunately, these same parents do want their children to get a decent education as traditionally understood.they have enough common sense to know what that demands.
The reasons are complex.one simple reason ought not to be underestimated.
It is nice for teachers to think they are engaged in "personality development" and even nicer to minimize those irksome tests with often disappointing results.It provides teachers with a superior self-definition as a "profession.
It also provides teachers with a superior self-definition as a "profession.they will have passed courses in educational psychology and educational philosophy.
It is nice for teachers to think they are engaged in "personality development" and even nicer to minimize those irksome tests with often disappointing results..It also provides teachers with a superior self-definition as a "profession," since they will have passed courses in educational psychology and educational philosophy..I myself took such courses in college, thinking I might end up a schoolteacher..They could all fairly be described as "pap" courses.it is unfair to dump on teachers, as distinct from the educational establishment.
I know many schoolteachers.on the whole, they are seriously committed to conscientious teaching.
They may not be among the "best and brightest" of their generation -- there are very few such people, by definition.they need not be to do their jobs well.
Yes, we all can remember one or two truly inspiring teachers from our school days.our education proceeded at the hands of those others, who were merely competent and conscientious.
he probably would not be a family doctor in the first place.he were brilliant.
he serves us well.he is competent and conscientious.
they would educate our children better.they got a few thousand dollars a year more.
It is the kind of libel the teachers' unions don't mind spreading, for their own narrow purposes.It is the kind of libel politicians find useful.
politicians find useful.it helps them strike a friendly posture on behalf of an important constituency.
It is the kind of libel the teachers' unions don't mind spreading, for their own narrow purposes..It is also the kind of libel politicians find useful, since it helps them strike a friendly posture on behalf of an important constituency.there is not one shred of evidence that, other things being equal, salary differentials result in educational differentials.
you would have heard of it.there were such evidence.
we know exactly what to do -- and, just as important, what not to do.we wish to be serious about American education.
There are many successful schools scattered throughout this nation, some of them in the poorest of ghettos.they are all sending us the same message.
There are many successful schools scattered throughout this nation, some of them in the poorest of ghettos, and they are all sending us the same message.there are the majority of unsuccessful schools, and we know which efforts at educational reform are doomed beforehand.
Conversely, there are the majority of unsuccessful schools.we know which efforts at educational reform are doomed beforehand.
We really do know all we need to know.we could assimilate this knowledge into our thinking.
In this respect, it would be helpful.our political leaders were mute, rather than eloquently "concerned.
They are inevitably inclined to echo the conventional pap.this is the least controversial option that is open to them.
They are inevitably inclined to echo the conventional pap.at the recent governors' conference on education, Gov. Bill Clinton of Arkansas announced that "this country needs a comprehensive child-development policy for children under five.
that very early exposure to schooling improves performance in the first grade.afterward the difference is quickly washed away.
that very early exposure to schooling improves performance in the first grade.but the difference is quickly washed away.
they should have the option of switching to another.parents are dissatisfied with a school.
New York is in the process of trying to disengage itself from a 20-year-old commitment to this system of school governance.Chicago and other cities are moving to institute it.
that even smaller classes have zero effect on the academic performance of the pupils.they may sometimes be desirable for other reasons.
that educational performance has declined.educational expenditures (in real terms) have increased sharply in the past quarter-of-a-century.
Students should move up the educational ladder.their academic potential allows.
less to permit the gifted youngsters to flourish.that is clearly desirable.
This is a fact.in view of all the feathers that are ruffled by this fact, it is not surprising that one hears so little about it.
that manufacturers face.computerizing their operations.
The company unveiled more than 50 products, mostly software, that are designed to integrate the three areas of a manufacturing operation -- the plant floor, design operations and production planning.The aim is to increase the flow of information into a manufacturer's main computer network for use in business planning, marketing and other operations.
that they are one of the computer industry's leading revenue sources.many manufacturers find that communication between different computers has been rendered nearly impossible by the babel of computer languages used by different machines, including robots and machine tools.
International Business Machines Corp. unveiled a broad strategy to tackle the biggest problem that manufacturers face when computerizing their operations: Most machines can't talk to each other.IBM's announcement, which was expected and will formally be made to customers today marks an attempt to gain credibility on the plant floor, where Digital Equipment Corp. has long dominated and where Hewlett-Packard Co. has recently gained market share.
where Digital Equipment Corp. has long dominated.where Hewlett-Packard Co. has recently gained market share.
that it will take a while for all the pieces of the IBM strategy to fall into place.the specific products IBM unveiled will generally be available by the end of the first quarter.
IBM's decision to invest this sort of effort into a single industry showed that it was getting serious about understanding customers' problems and wasn't just selling technology.IBM's push is unusual in its approach to marketing.
Rather than just send out marketing people to knock on customers' doors, IBM is making several hundred of its own manufacturing people available to discuss specific needs.IBM's manufacturing staff will be able to provide software that IBM has developed internally and will be able to form teams with a customer to jointly solve manufacturing problems.
IBM can obviously bring its expertise to bear on problems related to computer manufacturing.it could also help customers on software to deal with such things as changes in engineering documents.
IBM can obviously bring its expertise to bear on problems related to computer manufacturing.but it could help customers on software to deal with such things as changes in engineering documents.
We may not have every manufacturing problem.we have most.
that mirrored softer performance as a result of slower turnover on the Tokyo Stock Exchange during July and August.Figures for the period ended Sept. 30 for the four largest brokerage firms -- Nomura Securities Co., Daiwa Securities Co., Yamaichi Securities Co. and Nikko Securities reflected a changeover to a fiscal year ending March 31.
Figures for the period ended Sept. 30 for the four largest brokerage firms -- Nomura Securities Co., Daiwa Securities Co., Yamaichi Securities Co. and Nikko Securities -- also reflected a changeover to a fiscal year ending March 31, replacing the 12-month term formerly finishing Sept. 30.appropriate comparisons from the same period a year earlier were unavailable.
As a result appropriate comparisons from the same period a year earlier were unavailable.Operating profit, pretax profit and net income results were provided for the immediately preceding six-month period.
Total operating profit fell 3.1% to 486.1 billion yen from 501.61 billion yen.Net income rose 3.7% to 107.87 billion yen from 103.98 billion yen.
it will drop its $11.75-a-share, or $190 million, offer for Tesoro Petroleum Corp.the two companies don't have an agreement to merge by Dec. 15.
Harken said it still is awaiting a response to its offer from Tesoro's board.Harken said that its financing from Bankers Trust Co. has been extended until Dec. 15 to give Tesoro's board time to consider the offer at a Tesoro board meeting scheduled for mid-November.
it is particularly interested in Tesoro's refinery.it would fill a gap in its business.
it is particularly interested in Tesoro's refinery.Tesoro already has rejected a suitor in the past year.
Francis D. John, 35-year-old president, will assume the additional job of chief executive officer..He succeeds Paul J. Montle, 42, who will remain chairman.it will move its headquarters from Hingham to Folcroft, Pa., the site of its sludge dewatering facility.
Eagle Clothes Inc. said it reached an agreement with its creditors.Eagle said it received a commitment for as much as $8 million in financing from Norfolk Capital Group Inc.
it received a commitment for as much as $8 million in financing from Norfolk Capital Group Inc.a Norfolk affiliate, York Capital Inc., will purchase all of the interests of Eagle's secured lenders, which total $11.5 million, and guarantee as much as $8.2 million in payments to Eagle's unsecured creditors.
Eagle's management retired.Biny's management took control of the company.
At the time, Eagle reached a new credit agreement with Bankers Trust and with Bank Leumi Trust Co. of New York for $8 million, and a new subordinated debt accord with First Century Partners and Biny management for $2 million.Eagle said the financing was insufficient and sales during the past fiscal year sagged.
the financing was insufficient.sales during the past fiscal year sagged.
Under Chapter 11, a company operates under protection from creditors' lawsuits.it works out a plan to pay debts.
they must also reduce liabilities, such as deposits.thrifts sell assets.
As thrifts sell assets to improve their capital-to-asset ratio, as required under the new law passed in August.they must reduce liabilities, such as deposits.
thrift withdrawals exceeded deposits by $5.1 billion, not including interest credited to accounts.interest rates paid depositors were lowered.
The downsizing of the thrift industry is well under way," said Bert Ely, an industry consultant in Alexandria, Va. "This suggests the bailout law is having a more dramatic effect than anyone would have imagined so soon.James Barth, an economist with the Office of Thrift Supervision, attributed some of the outflow to seasonal factors.
Not including thrifts under government conservatorship, S&Ls reduced their assets by $10.1 billion from the previous month.deposit outflows totaled $3.9 billion.
For the 264 insolvent thrifts under government management at the end of August, assets declined by $3.3 billion.withdrawals exceeded deposits by $1.2 billion.
to exceed withdrawals in the foreseeable future.the industry continues to shrink.
we are going to see deposit shrinkage continue.we see big changes in rates.
underestimated growth rates artificially depress official productivity statistics.the bureau's estimates for the business sector provide the numerator for the productivity ratios calculated by the Department of Labor.
it has important implications for macroeconomic policies.this thesis is correct.
It may lower the sense of urgency behind efforts to enact tax incentives and other measures to increase the rate of growth in productivity and real GNP.It would affect the perceptions of the board of governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the informed public generally, as to what constitutes a reasonable degree of price stability.
In the early 1980s, I predicted a significant acceleration in productivity growth over the rest of the decade.There has been more than a one percentage point improvement in productivity growth since 1981.
There has indeed been more than a one percentage point improvement in productivity growth since 1981.I had expected more.
The evidence does not clearly support the view that the downward bias in output growth has become greater during the 1948-89 period.all I am claiming is that the growth trend is understated.
The evidence does not clearly support the view that the downward bias in output growth has become greater during the 1948-89 period, but all I am claiming is that the growth trend is understated.It is possible, that further study will reveal increasing bias.
this Labor Department estimate indicates a downward bias in the real GNP estimates of 0.2 percentage point a year, on average.it is assumed that productivity rose no more than half as quickly in the rest of the nonbusiness sector.
missing these productivity improvements depresses the overall growth rate by 0.15% a year.finance and services contribute 10% to final business product.
The first of three major sources of error is the use of labor input estimates (mainly employment or hours) instead of output estimates for those sectors, such as governments, paid household services and private non-profit institutions, where there are difficulties in assembling output data The second source of error in growth statistics is the use of inappropriate deflators to adjust for price changes.the official estimates understate growth because they make inadequate allowance for improvements in quality of goods and services.
Finally, the official estimates understate growth.they make inadequate allowance for improvements in quality of goods and services.
In 1985, a new price index for computers adjusted for changes in performance characteristics was introduced.that resulted in a significantly larger increase in real outlays for durable goods than the earlier estimates had showed.
The first of three major sources of error is the use of labor input estimates (mainly employment or hours) instead of output estimates for those sectors, such as governments, paid household services and private non-profit institutions, where there are difficulties in assembling output data The second source of error in growth statistics is the use of inappropriate deflators to adjust for price changes Finally, the official estimates understate growth because they make inadequate allowance for improvements in quality of goods and services.the biases ennumerated above indicate a 0.7 percentage point understatement in growth of total real GNP.
In sum, the biases ennumerated above indicate a 0.7 percentage point understatement in growth of total real GNP..For the private domestic business economy, the bias was a bit over 0.5 percentage point.the growth rates of both total GNP and real private business product per labor hour have been underestimated by about 20%.
Carbide, like other companies with a heavy reliance on the so-called commodity end of the chemicals industry, was expected to post earnings sharply lower than in an exceptionally strong 1988 third quarter.the company's latest quarter was a few pennies a share lower than the more pessimistic projections on Wall Street.
It certainly wasn't a disaster.it does show weakness" in some of the company's chief markets.
the slide accelerated in the third quarter.buyers continued to trim inventories.
Prices for polyethylene, a common plastic and an important Carbide product, started to fall early this year.Prices fell for ethylene oxide and glycols, products used in making antifreeze.
For the third quarter, operating profit from Carbide's chemicals and plastics business fell to $238 million from $352 million a year ago.accounting for taxes and interest expense.
For the third quarter, operating profit from Carbide's chemicals and plastics business fell to $238 million from $352 million a year ago, before accounting for taxes and interest expense.Operating profit from carbon products, such as graphite electrodes declined, to $6 million from $20 million.
Propylene glycols are used in making personal-care products such as shampoo.urethane polyols are used in making the polyurethane foam found in furniture cushioning and other products.
At least 10 states are resisting Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. 's nationwide effort to settle its legal troubles.some might instead try to revoke the firm's license to sell securities within their borders.
to settle its legal troubles.and some might try to revoke the firm's license to sell securities within their borders.
Up to now, Drexel has made a rapid-fire series of settlements with 25 states and the commonwealth of Puerto Rico.the firm is meeting resistance from some big states, including New Jersey, New York, California, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and Missouri.
Ohio, the District of Columbia, Tennessee and Illinois have been less resistant to Drexel than the other six states.but have refused to settle so far.
it doesn't expect any of its state brokerage licenses will be revoked.even if some are, its securities business wouldn't be directly hurt.
and its securities business wouldn't be directly hurt.some are.
Drexel says it doesn't expect any of its state brokerage licenses will be revoked, and even if some are, its securities business wouldn't be directly hurt..It already has sold its retail, or individual-investor, brokerage network; securities firms don't need brokerage licenses for non-retail activities such as investment banking.if nothing else, a revoked brokerage license could be a burden because it must be disclosed in many of the transactions in which Drexel could be involved.
Still a revoked brokerage license could be a burden.nothing else.
Still, if nothing else, a revoked brokerage license could be a burden.it must be disclosed in many of the transactions in which Drexel could be involved.
Securities regulators praise Drexel for its energetic effort, led by government-approved general counsel Saul S. Cohen, to settle its legal problems with the states.they disagree about the message these settlements give to the public.
whether Drexel should be allowed to pay and move on.whether you should (simply) revoke the license when someone is convicted of a felony.
or "whether you should (simply) revoke the license.someone is convicted of a felony.
she said: "I don't have any argument with those who came to different conclusions.Ms. Bryant's state went ahead and accepted Drexel's settlement offer of $25,000.
While Ms. Bryant's state went ahead and accepted Drexel's settlement offer of $25,000, she said: "I don't have any argument with those who came to different conclusions..I can see both sides.Alfred Rubega, New Hampshire's director of securities regulation, said his state hadn't received any complaints about Drexel, so it really couldn't press the issue..Still, "I understand the reasons" that other states are holding out, he said.
his state hadn't received any complaints about Drexel.it really couldn't press the issue.
his state hadn't received any complaints about Drexel, so it really couldn't press the issue.I understand the reasons" that other states are holding out.
more than $2.8 million has been paid to 26 states.that Drexel still expects to pay out a total of $11.5 million.
that are either close to settlements with Drexel.who don't appear opposed to settling.
Drexel's proposed state fines have been based on a state's population and on the size of Drexel's business in the state.New Jersey was asked to accept $300,000.
The state isn't ruling out revoking Drexel's brokerage license.The state can bar Drexel as an investment adviser.
State officials won't describe their position in detail.James McLelland Smith, state securities chief, said: "We really are still looking at it and have informed (Drexel) that the proposal is really not sufficient for settlement.
Neither state has settled.officials in the two states won't discuss their reasons for not doing so.
and officials in the two states won't discuss their reasons for not doing so.Drexel has made it clear it could mount a significant legal battle in each state if its license is revoked, according to state officials.
it could mount a significant legal battle in each state.its license is revoked.
Drexel has done a better job of settling with the states than E.F. Hutton did after its guilty plea to a massive check-kiting scheme several years ago.Drexel's trouble with some states isn't a bad thing.
to have somebody worried.they don't do this again.
Time Warner Inc. reported a third-quarter net loss of $176 million, or $2.88 cents a share, reflecting acquisition costs for a 59.3% stake in Warner Communications Inc. and the purchase method of accounting for the transaction.Warner reported a net loss of $106 million, or 56 cents a share, including merger expenses of $100 million and $120 million in charges associated with stock-appreciation-based compensation plans.
I look at these numbers.I say, these businesses are doing well.
these businesses are doing well.Warner made more than $100 million from filmed entertainment in three months.
For example, Warner made more than $100 million from filmed entertainment in three months.Warner had a gain of more than 13% from records and music publishing.
Warner also had a gain of more than 13% from records and music publishing.the domestic record business was sluggish this summer.
Batman" alone has racked up more than $247 million in box-office receipts to date.Lethal Weapon II" was a big hit.
Time Warner's operating earnings got a boost from Warner's record box-office results.Warner contributed record results from its music business.
Time Warner said its cable division turned in a 77% increase in operating cash flow, to $166 million from $94 million, reflecting higher per-subscriber revenue.the 1988 results included a $20 million charge reflecting a reserve for relocation related expenses at American Television & Communications Corp.
its cable division turned in a 77% increase in operating cash flow, to $166 million from $94 million.its operating cash flow declined in the quarter for its magazine division, its books division and the Home Box Office programming division.
The programming division saw a decline in operating cash flow.the year-ago quarter included a $12 million dividend from Turner Broadcasting System.
because the year-ago quarter included a $12 million dividend from Turner Broadcasting System.because the quarter includes expenses associated with the Nov. 15 launch of HBO's Comedy Channel.
The programming division saw a decline in operating cash flow.the quarter includes expenses associated with the Nov. 15 launch of HBO's Comedy Channel.
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Time Warner closed at $138.625 a share, up $1.875.Warner closed at $63.875 a share, up 12.5 cents.
that Mr. Simmons, the chairman of Valley National Bank in Phoenix, is the Republican appointee.that a security clearance was under way.
Mr. Simmons declined to comment.the White House said the congressmen's letter is under review.
Both banks have been battered, as have other Arizona banks, by falling real estate prices.Valley National had $470 million in problem assets as of June.
We believe that there are numerous other candidates more qualified for this important position.we encourage you to give them your thorough consideration before making this key RTC appointment.
to give them your thorough consideration.making this key RTC appointment.
Some House Democrats are trying to head off an appointment by President Bush to the board that oversees the savings-and-loan bailout.Mr. Simmons has long ties to both Republicans and banking.
He was co-chairman of Mr. Bush's Arizona campaign committee in last year's election.and worked for Mr. Bush in the 1980 election.
when Mr. Simmons worked for Commercial Bank & Trust Co. of Midland, Texas, where Mr. Bush was an organizing director.In 1986, Mr. Simmons served on a committee of businessmen headed by William Seidman, chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Resolution Trust Corp.
Randolph W. McElroy, a vice chairman of this bank-holding company, was named to the additional position of chairman of its principal unit, Sovran Bank.Sovran named John B. Werner a vice chairman of the parent company and the unit and elected him to the newly created position of chief credit officer of Sovran Financial.
Moody's Investors Service Inc. said it lowered the debt ratings of certain long-term debt held by this company.Moody's said it raised its rating on the Deposit Insurance Bridge Bank, now known as Bank One, Texas N.A.
Investors may reap huge profits.premiums exceed claims.
Investors may reap huge profits.premiums exceed claims.
Investors may reap huge profits when premiums exceed claims.they are liable to their last pound or dollar in the event of a catastrophe.
Investors may reap huge profits when premiums exceed claims, but they are liable to their last pound or dollar in the event of a catastrophe.catastrophes are getting ever more costly.
And catastrophes are getting ever more costly.Lloyd's claims for the 1988 Piper Alpha oil-rig disaster in the North Sea may reach $1 billion.
they will have to take everything I've got.Lloyd's wants #70,000 out of me.
If Lloyd's wants #70,000 out of me they will have to take everything I've got.even then I don't know if it will be enough.
they will have to take everything I've got.and I don't know if it will be enough.
The downside is very considerable.at the moment the upside is very marginal.
he may quit the exchange.profits don't improve.
Lloyd's, once a pillar of the world insurance market, is being shaken to its very foundation.competition from rivals unencumbered by history is intensifying.
Lloyd's, once a pillar of the world insurance market, is being shaken to its very foundation.competition from rivals unencumbered by history is intensifying.
It virtually dictated how ships were to be built.it monitored commerce through a unrivaled intelligence network in ports around the globe.
Its stake is even smaller.life insurance is included.
competitors now underwrite most of that business.Lloyd's pioneered such now-standard policies as worker's compensation insurance, burglary insurance for homeowners and businesses, and bankers' liability insurance.
Even Lloyd's specialty -- unusually risky ventures -- is being challenged.Only 10 years ago Lloyd's was the pre-eminent insurer of thoroughbred horses..But since 1981, Kirk Horse Insurance Inc. of Lexington, Ky. has grabbed a 20% stake of the market.
Only 10 years ago, for instance, Lloyd's was the pre-eminent insurer of thoroughbred horses.since 1981, Kirk Horse Insurance Inc. of Lexington, Ky. has grabbed a 20% stake of the market.
Lloyd's has suffered.its structure doesn't allow underwriters to deal directly with clients.
because its structure doesn't allow underwriters to deal directly with clients; brokers are required intermediaries.Lloyd's can't react quickly to competition.
This is a watershed time.we are trying to plot our way ahead.
for inventing risks.which other people take, copy and cut rates.
Three years ago, the exchange took up residence in a space-age tower of steel and glass.along with such treasured artifacts as Lord Nelson's spyglass, Lloyd's also brought its outmoded ways of doing business.
The system is so ludicrously unprofessional it drives you mad.underwriters have been inept.
the San Francisco earthquake will cause the industry to boost rates even further.it will be years before it is clear whether higher rates will offset the payouts for such disasters.
But it will be years.it is clear whether higher rates will offset the payouts for such disasters.
That year, it posted record pretax profit of #650 million, a gain it attributes to higher rates and fewer claims.reported profit will be down in 1987, 1988 and 1989.
But Mr. Lawrence says reported profit will be down in 1987, 1988 and 1989.he declines to specify how steep the decline will be.
the departures of names isn't likely to hurt its underwriting capacity, currently about #11 billion the drain of funds has been offset by an increase in investments by the remaining names.the exchange has been trying to lower costs.
the departures of names isn't likely to hurt its underwriting capacity, currently about #11 billion the drain of funds has been offset by an increase in investments by the remaining names.the exchange has been trying to lower costs.
Meanwhile, the exchange has been trying to lower costs.Lloyd's is hampered in its efforts to overhaul operations by its reluctance to embrace modern technology.
the effort hasn't gotten very far.Lloyd's has talked for years about computerizing underwriting transactions.
But Lloyd's is hampered in its efforts to overhaul operations by its reluctance to embrace modern technology.Lloyd's overblown bureaucracy hampers efforts to update marketing strategies.
Lloyd's presently sells only auto insurance directly to the public.such policies are sold only in limited markets such as the U.K. and Canada.
Some underwriters have been pressing for years to tap the low-margin business by selling some policies directly to consumers.such changes must be cleared by four internal committees and dozens of underwriters, brokers and administrators before being implemented.
But such changes must be cleared by four internal committees and dozens of underwriters, brokers and administrators.being implemented.
The proposal to sell directly to the public remains mired in bureaucratic quicksand.Lloyd's is moving forward on some fronts.
In Japanese firms, the president usually is in charge of day-to-day operations.the chairman's role is more a ceremonial one.
the speed of his promotion surprised many.people within Daiwa, particularly internationalists, expected that Mr. Dozen, 52, would eventually become Daiwa's president.
that does very well in its domestic market.that is still seeking to realize its potential in global investment banking and securities dealing.
to make its international operations more profitable.preparing the firm for the effects of the continuing deregulation of Japan's domestic markets.
they have been only marginally profitable, if at all, in the U.S.they have moved to the fore in underwriting fixed-income securities in the Eurobond market -- mostly for Japanese firms.
American institutional investors have never had a large appetite for Japanese equities.while the Japanese have stepped up their purchases of U.S. shares in the past several months, they have shown themselves in the past to be fickle investors.
And they have shown themselves in the past to be fickle investors.the Japanese have stepped up their purchases of U.S. shares in the past several months.
he tried selling Japanese yen-denominated bonds to U.S. investors.he arrived in the U.S. in 1969 -- the start of an eight-year tour.
He made desperate efforts, using the yellow pages from beginning to end.not a single piece of paper was sold.
how he successfully bid for the opportunity to sell portions of 20 U.S. corporate bond issues.some training at Salomon Brothers Inc.
how he successfully bid for the opportunity to sell portions of 20 U.S. corporate bond issues.he couldn't sell any.
the indignity suffered.he and two colleagues went on an overnight fishing expedition off the New Jersey shore and caught nothing.
Exhausted, I got into a taxicab.the woman driver said: `Americans make better fishermen.
Exhausted, I got into a taxicab.the woman driver said: `Americans make better fishermen.
Like many young recruits in Japanese securities firms, he began his career peddling stock to individual investors.In his climb to the top, Mr. Dozen headed the company's stock-exchange division, its fixed-income units and its international operations.
He was constantly picking up new things to fill out his experience; he is very well-balanced.it Mr. Dozen's experience as a salesman that enabled him to gain the political support -- particularly from the retail sales force -- to accede to the presidency.
Commission income from domestic stock and bond sales accounts form a large portion of Japanese securities companies' earnings.anybody who lacked the backing of the retail sales force "would be fragile.
it may be his golf game.Mr. Dozen has a weakness.
Inco Ltd. posted a 35% decline in third-quarter net income, a performance that was in line with analysts' expectations.The nickel producer raised its quarterly dividend to 25 cents a share from 20 cents and said it may buy back as much as 4.8% of its common outstanding.
Inco, which had cash reserves of $272 million as of Sept. 30, could still announce a special dividend in the next few months.it would be smaller than the $10-a-share special dividend it paid last year.
to buy back as many as five million common shares over the next 12 months.nickel market conditions are favorable.
UAL Corp. 's board quashed any prospects for an immediate revival of a labor-management buy-out.UAL's chairman, Stephen M. Wolf, pulled out of the buy-out effort.
Just last week it suffered another major setback.British Airways PLC, the largest equity investor in the labor-management bid, withdrew its support.
which makes a market in UAL.the exchange is closed.
The rebound in UAL stock during regular trading hours Monday was its first daily gain.six consecutive losses left the price 41% below its level before Oct. 13, the day the group announced the bank financing couldn't be obtained for the original deal.
to consider an informal proposal from the buy-out group for a revised bid.it wasn't interested for now.
That proposal would have transferred majority ownership to employees.leaving some stock in public hands.
That proposal would have transferred majority ownership to employees.leaving some stock in public hands.
The buy-out group had no firm financing for the plan.with no other offers on the table, the board apparently felt no pressure to act on it.
And, with no other offers on the table, the board apparently felt no pressure to act on it.The directors signaled that they would be willing to consider future offers or take some other action to maximize shareholder value, saying they would continue to explore "all strategic and financial alternatives.
The directors signaled, however, that they would be willing to consider future offers or take some other action to maximize shareholder value, saying they would continue to explore "all strategic and financial alternatives.it was clear that for the time being, the board wants the company to return to normalcy.
Mr. Wolf urged all employees to "now turn their full attention" to operating the airline.He vowed to "make every effort to nurture . . . a constructive new relationship that has been forged with participating employee groups.
He also vowed to "make every effort to nurture . . . a constructive new relationship that has been forged with participating employee groups.Mr. Wolf faces a monumental task in pulling the company back together again.
that it is still committed to majority employee ownership.that the labor disputes that faced the company prior to the buy-out effort "still need to be addressed.
that the labor disputes that faced the company prior to the buy-out effort "still need to be addressed.The buy-out effort worsened already-strained relations between United's pilot and machinist unions.
The machinists previously had shown themselves to be an ally to Mr. Wolf.he lost much of his credibility with that group when he teamed up with the pilot union.
but he lost much of his credibility with that group.he teamed up with the pilot union.
but he lost much of his credibility with that group when he teamed up with the pilot union.His credibility is on the line in the investment community.
Mr. Wolf was regarded as one of the nation's savviest airline executives after engineering turnarounds of Tiger International Inc. and Republic Airlines.the collapse of this bid.
Until the collapse of this bid, Mr. Wolf was regarded as one of the nation's savviest airline executives.engineering turnarounds of Tiger International Inc. and Republic Airlines.
Until the collapse of this bid, Mr. Wolf was regarded as one of the nation's savviest airline executives after engineering turnarounds of Tiger International Inc. and Republic Airlines.he and his chief financial officer, John Pope, sowed some of the seeds for the deal's failure by insisting banks accept low financing fees and interest rates, while they invested in the transaction only a small fraction of the $114.3 million they stood to gain from sale of their UAL stock and options.
by insisting banks accept low financing fees and interest rates.they invested in the transaction only a small fraction of the $114.3 million they stood to gain from sale of their UAL stock and options.
by insisting banks accept low financing fees and interest rates.they invested in the transaction only a small fraction of the $114.3 million they stood to gain from sale of their UAL stock and options.
The board's actions leave takeover stock traders nursing some $700 million in losses and eager to respond to anyone who might make a new offer.It inevitably leaves a residue of shareholder lawsuits.
he remains interested in the airline.he is restricted from making certain hostile moves by an agreement he signed to obtain confidential UAL data.
Essentially, he can't make any hostile moves.he makes a tender offer at least $300 a share.
At this time, we elected not to get involved.we have been able to satisfy our need {for DRAMs} from the market as a rule.
I would like to have had them.they weren't on my list of companies who were critical to be a part of it.
two or three major corporations to announce their participation in U.S. Memories.the group finishes a business plan, probably late this week.
he expects two or three major corporations to announce their participation in U.S. Memories soon after the group finishes a business plan, probably late this week.so far, most potential participants haven't decided.
that the company hasn't made a decision yet.it isn't under active consideration.
that the U.S. would undertake to warn Panamanian thug Manuel Noriega.it got wind of an impending coup that might result in his assassination.
the American people ought to know.the CIA has become a protection service for Mr. Noriega.
to blame the executive branch.stamping "top secret" on their own complicity.
Naturally, Senator Boren and his committee would like free rein to blame the executive branch while stamping "top secret" on their own complicity.there's no danger of exposing sources and methods in disclosing the debate running up and down Pennsylvania Avenue.
But there's no danger of exposing sources and methods in disclosing the debate running up and down Pennsylvania Avenue.if Congress is going to assume authority to micromanage foreign policy, it's going to have to take some of the responsibility too.
And it's going to have to take some of the responsibility too.Congress is going to assume authority to micromanage foreign policy.
his commanders didn't have the initiative to do more than block a couple of roads.they did.
The executive branch bears the first responsibility for timidity.what kind of initiative can you expect given the climate set by Congress.
But what kind of initiative can you expect given the climate set by Congress.what exactly did the CIA tell Major Giroldi and his fellow coup plotters about U.S. laws and executive orders on assassinations?.What part did U.S. warnings play in the major's unwillingness to pull the trigger when he had General Noriega in custody, but was under attack by pro-Noriega troops.
What part did U.S. warnings play in the major's unwillingness to pull the trigger.he had General Noriega in custody, but was under attack by pro-Noriega troops.
Mr. Noriega didn't suffer from any hesitation.he had the pistol.
You have the right to conceal your coup intentions.we may rat on you.
to smooth things over a few days later.but simply underlined Mr. Webster's point.
The interpretation" of the executive order and the way in which the various committees have over time interpreted it, has led in my view to a proper caution on the part of operators, including me.Congress won't let the CIA do much of anything anymore, and that's fine with the CIA.
In other words, Congress won't let the CIA do much of anything anymore.that's fine with the CIA.
The pay's the same.the duty's lighter.
The pay's the same, and the duty's lighter.of course, doing anything that might be second-guessed by Congress carries heavy penalties.
what can happen.they fail.
There are of course good reasons the U.S. shouldn't get into the assassination business.rescinding the executive order is not the same thing as saying the U.S. should start passing out exploding cigars.
We've heard California's property-tax-cutting Proposition 13 blamed for a lot over the years.ABC's Ted Koppel came up with a new wrinkle in his earthquake coverage last week when he asked Democratic Assemblyman Richard Katz if Prop. 13 had withheld money needed for road maintenance.
Both have been raised at least 30% in recent years.the price of gasoline has fallen.
There were no immediate reports of deaths.a number of workers were still unaccounted for last night.
The U.S. Coast Guard closed six miles of the Houston Ship Channel.the thick, black smoke obscured the area.
Broken water lines and gas leaks hindered firefighters' efforts.by late yesterday authorities said they had the fire under control.
Nearby Pasadena, Texas, police reported that 104 people had been taken to area hospitals.a spokeswoman said that toll could rise.
In late August, four contract workers were injured after an explosion at a fuel supply line near the facility's boiler house.one Phillips employee died.
A federal judge in Manhattan has entered a judgment requiring a Chicago organized crime figure to pay the government $250,000.U.S. District Judge David Edelstein permanently enjoined Mr. Lombardo from any future dealings with the Teamsters or any other labor union.
its third-quarter earnings slipped 9%.profits from two of its three major businesses sagged.
Exxon Corp. said its third-quarter earnings slipped 9% as profits from two of its three major businesses sagged.Phillips Petroleum Co. and Atlantic Richfield Co reported declines in quarterly profit.
Phillips Petroleum Co. and Atlantic Richfield Co. also reported declines in quarterly profit.Ashland Oil Inc. posted a loss for the latest quarter.
those expenses as well as the cost of a continuing spill-related program are covered by $880 million in charges taken during the first half.Exxon spent heavily during the latest quarter to clean up the Alaskan shoreline blackened by its huge oil spill.
spilled.one of its tankers rammed into an underwater reef.
spilled.one of its tankers rammed into an underwater reef.
An Exxon official said that at this time the oil company doesn't anticipate any additional charges to future earnings relating to the cleanup of oil spilled when one of its tankers rammed into an underwater reef.She added, that charges already taken don't take into account the potential effect of litigation involving the oil spill.
Exxon's earnings from chemicals operations fell $90 million, to $254 million.refining and marketing profits declined $180 million, to $357 million.
they weren't strong enough to offset the declining profits in those business sectors at most oil companies.crude oil prices were significantly higher this year.
The Ashland, Ky., oil company reported a $38 million charge resulting from settlement of a 10-year dispute with the National Iranian Oil Co. over claims that Ashland didn't pay for Iranian crude it had received.Ashland took a $25 million after-tax charge to cover anticipated costs to correct problems with boilers built by one of its subsidiaries.
Ashland also took a $25 million after-tax charge to cover anticipated costs to correct problems with boilers built by one of its subsidiaries.The oil refiner booked a $15 million charge for selling Ashland Technology Corp., one of its subsidiaries, at a loss.
Refining and marketing earnings climbed to $33.3 million from $12.9 million.exploration and production earnings rose to $37.1 million from $17.9 million.
to cover the cost of maintaining operations.Hurricane Hugo heavily damaged the company's refinery at St. Croix.
There are about $100 million of 7% term bonds due 2009, priced to yield 7.30%.There are about $124 million of 6 1/2% bonds priced to yield 7.25% in 2012; about $97 million of 6% bonds priced to yield 7.20% in 2014; and about $26.5 million of 5% bonds priced to yield 7.15% in 2016.
Federal National Mortgage Association -- $500 million of Remic mortgage securities being offered in 10 classes by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets..The offering, Series 1989-85, is backed by Fannie Mae 9% securities.a $400 million issue of Fannie Mae Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 15 classes by Bear, Stearns & Co..The offering, Series 1989-86, is backed by Fannie Mae 9% securities.
Federal National Mortgage Association -- $500 million of Remic mortgage securities being offered in 10 classes by Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Separately, a $400 million issue of Fannie Mae Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 15 classes by Bear, Stearns & Co.a $300 million issue of Fannie Mae Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 12 classes by Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co.
he is not going to change his style.I'm going to proceed in a more logical way..I'm not going to do anything that is not acceptable in anyone's home.
But I'm going to proceed in a more logical way..I'm not going to do anything that is not acceptable in anyone's home.that doesn't mean I'm not going to get angry.
that viewers will no longer have to endure the shouting of "Mort! Mort! Mort.there will be a studio audience.
he is not going to change his style, which some critics said was flamboyant and others deemed offensive.just how does Mr. Downey's unorthodox style mesh with the sedate tone of CNBC's business programming.
Mr. Downey's previous show, a one-hour shout fest, syndciated by MCA Inc. and produced by Quantum Media Inc., was canceled in July.advertisers and stations abandoned it.
In an economic slowdown, heavy debt loads reduce the flexibility of companies.cash that would normally be used to keep the company buoyant must be diverted to interest payments.
that the selling of cyclical stocks yesterday will be followed by a sell-off in shares of companies with big debt loads on their balance sheets.investors beat a clear path yesterday to blue-chip issues with proven earnings growth records.
Under this scrutiny, the first thing you do is sell your cyclical stocks.the second thing you do is sell your over-leveraged companies.
Under this scrutiny, the first thing you do is sell your cyclical stocks.the second thing you do is sell your over-leveraged companies.
Many money managers are bracing for a decline in stocks of companies with big debt loads on their balance sheets.much of the buying in blue chips yesterday was a pursuit of companies with lower debt levels.
McDonald's has long-term debt equaling 91% of shareholder equity currently.the company is carrying real estate assets at about $2.6 billion below their real value.
Coca-Cola climbed 1 3/8 to 72 1/8; McDonald's added 1 to 31 3/8.Procter & Gamble gained 3/4 to 130 5/8.
A&P fell 1 1/4 to 57 5/8.J. Baker gained 3/8 to 21 1/4.
Philip Morris slipped 1/2 to 43 7/8.Sara Lee closed unchanged at 60 1/8.
From January to early September, the index of stub stocks -- the tiny portion of equity that's publicly traded following a recapitalization -- outperformed Standard & Poor's 500-stock index by about 20%.starting in early September, the index started to slide and now stands about even with the S&P 500.
Union Carbide declined 1/2 to 24 1/2.Exxon went down 3/8 to 45 3/4 and Allied-Signal lost 7/8 to 35 1/8.
Also, Exxon went down 3/8 to 45 3/4.Allied-Signal lost 7/8 to 35 1/8 even though the companies' results for the quarter were in line with forecasts.
Also, Exxon went down 3/8 to 45 3/4 and Allied-Signal lost 7/8 to 35 1/8.the companies' results for the quarter were in line with forecasts.
it may consider filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.it can't reach an agreement with federal regulators to provide additional capital to MeraBank.
Merrill Lynch and Prudential-Bache Securities both lowered the stock's investment rating according to PIR.the results were issued Friday.
Elsewhere in the chemicals sector, Dow Chemical fell 1 1/4 to 97 1/2, Monsanto lost 1 7/8 to 118, B.F. Goodrich slipped 2 1/4 to 44 3/4.Olin slid 1 to 57 3/4.
UAL advanced 9 7/8 to 178 3/8 on 1.1 million shares on anticipation of a revised takeover offer from a labor-management group for the parent company of United Airlines.declining about 41% last week.
UAL advanced 9 7/8 to 178 3/8 on 1.1 million shares on anticipation of a revised takeover offer from a labor-management group for the parent company of United Airlines.Delta Air Lines fell 1 1/2 to 67 1/2 and USAir Group dropped 3/4 to 42 1/2.
However, Delta Air Lines fell 1 1/2 to 67 1/2.USAir Group dropped 3/4 to 42 1/2.
Ramada gained 7/8 to 11 1/4.revamping the terms of its restructuring plan, which calls for the company to sell its hotel operations for $540 million and spin off its casino business to shareholders.
Paramount Communications rose 5/8 to 58 3/4, Time Warner climbed 1 7/8 to 138 5/8, Walt Disney advanced 3 1/8 to 127 1/2, MCA rose 1 1/8 to 65 5/8.McGraw-Hill added 1/2 to 67 1/8.
He may have gone overboard in his pursuit of good discipline.isn't it interesting that some of the country's biggest, most troubled school districts are choosing new chiefs from the same gravel-chewing mold.
Mr. Fernandez doesn't take control in New York until January.already he's roiling the waters.
they stay.they are in the building.
He was finally given leave.he was arrested for allegedly buying crack.
Naturally, the principals' union loves building tenure.tenure has withstood previous challenge.
We suggest that Mr. Fernandez find an incompetent principal, toss him out of the building and let the forces of the status quo explain to the parents whatever it is they're defending.the no-more-nonsense superintendents are going to have to be judicious as well; incompetent principals and administrators should go, but the good ones ought to be left alone.
incompetent principals and administrators should go.the good ones ought to be left alone.
Getting a community of parents to care again about its schools is essential.in Chicago the new boards will make mistakes and Mr. Kimbrough will have to identify them.
but in Chicago the new boards will make mistakes.Mr. Kimbrough will have to identify them.
but in Chicago the new boards will make mistakes.Mr. Kimbrough will have to identify them.
The classroom itself operated on the periphery of this awful system, discipline collapsed.kids stopped learning.
The classroom itself operated on the periphery of this awful system, discipline collapsed.kids stopped learning.
Mr. Chips was a nice fellow.maybe some day he'll return.
Ingersoll Publications Co. agreed to buy the New Haven Register in a transaction valued at $275 million from Goodson Newspaper Group Inc.As part of the agreement, Goodson terminated the contract under which Ingersoll manages Goodson's 66 newspapers.
Under the terms of the accord, Ingersoll will pay about $255 million for the Register, a daily that Goodson bought for about $170 million in 1986..Goodson will pay the additional $20 million in settlement of the management contract.that it hired the former president and senior vice president of Ingersoll to run the Goodson papers.
The latter's son, Ralph Ingersoll Jr., took over the company and has been managing the Goodson properties and acting as an agent in the purchase of newspapers for Goodson.in recent years, Mr. Ingersoll began focusing more on expanding his own newspaper empire in partnership with investment banking firm Warburg, Pincus & Co.
that Ralph and I have different agendas.that he feels "more comfortable with a management team whose sole interest and responsibility is in the Goodson papers.
Kenneth Roman, Ogilvy's chairman and chief executive officer, said he is leaving to take a top post at American Express Co.Ogilvy Group was swallowed up in an unsolicited takeover.
American Express representatives apparently influenced the publication of unfavorable articles about Mr. Safra.The company apologized and agreed to make $8 million in contributions to charities chosen by him.
he will continue to work as a consultant for American Express on a project basis.Mr. Freeman is retiring.
The agency, under his direction, bitterly fought a takeover attempt by WPP Group PLC of London.succumbing in May.
The agency, under his direction, bitterly fought a takeover attempt by WPP Group PLC of London before succumbing in May.although Mr. Roman and WPP's chief executive, Martin Sorrell, have gone out of their way to be publicly supportive of each other, people close to Mr. Roman say he was unhappy giving up control of the company.
he was unhappy giving up control of the company.Mr. Roman and WPP's chief executive, Martin Sorrell, have gone out of their way to be publicly supportive of each other.
And people close to Mr. Roman say he was unhappy giving up control of the company.Some executives cite tension because of efforts by Mr. Sorrell, a financial man, to cut costs at the agency.
who had been president of North American operations.who, like Mr. Sorrell, is British.
Mr. Roman will be succeeded as the head of Ogilvy's flagship ad agency, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, by Graham Phillips, 50.Mr. Roman had overseen Ogilvy Group's two other units, the Scali McCabe Sloves advertising agency and its research division.
Mr. Roman also had overseen Ogilvy Group's two other units, the Scali McCabe Sloves advertising agency and its research division.those units will now report directly to WPP.
Known as a traditional executive, he is very much in the conservative American Express mold.after 26 years at Ogilvy he had honed a reputation for being squeaky-clean and a straight arrow.
Moreover, after 26 years at Ogilvy he had honed a reputation for being squeaky-clean and a straight arrow.He is close to American Express's chairman and chief executive officer, James D. Robinson III.
The abrupt management change sparked widespread speculation that Mr. Roman had been pushed out of Ogilvy's top spot by Mr. Sorrell.Mr. Roman flatly denied the speculation.
American Express's Mr. Robinson first approached him about the job in late September.According to industry executives, Peter Sutherland, a former European Community commissioner from Ireland, was a serious contender for the American Express job.
he will be on retainer to American Express as an adviser on international matters.it ultimately wasn't offered to him.
he agreed to take the job.talking on and off for the past four weeks.
he agreed to take the job.it's the right time, it's a terrific opportunity, and I think I leave the company in very strong hands.
because "it's the right time, it's a terrific opportunity.I think I leave the company in very strong hands.
After talking on and off for the past four weeks he agreed to take the job because "it's the right time, it's a terrific opportunity, and I think I leave the company in very strong hands.Mr. Roman brushed aside reports about infighting between him and Mr. Phillips, his successor at Ogilvy.
that the WPP takeover brought them closer together.the two executives used to clash more frequently.
Would I have done all those things successively.I didn't think he was the right guy.
Mr. Roman will oversee American Express's public relations and government affairs, among other things.he won't be involved in its advertising, which is handled by the operating units.
Mr. Roman will oversee American Express's public relations and government affairs, among other things.He will sit on the company's corporate planning and policy committee, made up of the top corporate and operating executives.
Mr. Roman's departure isn't expected to have any enormous repercussions at Ogilvy.some clients and analysts expressed concern that Mr. Phillips isn't as well-known to many clients.
But some clients and analysts expressed concern that Mr. Phillips isn't as well-known to many clients.some analysts questioned whether Mr. Phillips would have the skills Ogilvy needs to turn the agency around.
its flagship New York office has had a dismal track record recently.the agency has done well in many parts of the world.
it has won few new accounts.losing big ones, including Maxwell House.
I think they need creative leadership.I don't think they have it.
Norm Berry was a creative inspiration at the company.nobody has filled that void.
And some analysts questioned whether Mr. Phillips would have the skills Ogilvy needs to turn the agency around.other analysts said that having Mr. Phillips succeed Mr. Roman would make for a smooth transition.
Computer Sciences wouldn't disclose the proposed purchase price for Cleveland Consulting, which counsels companies on logistics and supply.an industry standard would suggest a purchase price of between one and two times Cleveland Consulting's approximately $15 million annual revenue.
that will premiere on Turner Broadcasting's Turner Network Television channel, or TNT.and will be released internationally in movie theaters.
produced by Charlton Heston.who stars in the movie.
Ted Turner, Turner Broadcasting's chairman, was named chairman of Turner Pictures.Gerry Hogan, president of Turner Entertainment Networks, was named president of the unit.
the subsidiary's primary mission will be to make movies for TNT and to distribute them internationally.Turner Broadcasting already has found some ideas that might work well as films for theatrical release in the U.S.
we'll release the films in the U.S.that occurs.
When that occurs.when the time is right.
we'll release the films in the U.S.and the time is right.
Turner has made several movies, docudramas and documentaries for its networks in recent years.the company has never acted as a full-fledged movie studio and released its own pictures to theaters.
that will premiere on Showtime network.and be distributed in various markets, including foreign theaters.
that it will offer to boost its Navigation Mixte stake to 66.7% from the current 18.7%.it receives the go-ahead from French stock market authorities.
The move would greatly boost Paribas's stake in the insurance, transport and food businesses, where Navigation Mixte is strong.It would make Paribas a major French ally of West Germany's Allianz AG insurance group.
Paribas is Allianz's main French bank.the Munich-based group said it intends to stay neutral.
it wouldn't have any comment.its board meets Wednesday.
Long considered a potential takeover target, Navigation Mixte had hoped Allianz would help protect it from raiders.Navigation Mixte is loosely held and hard to defend.
it will be the second time in two months a big French investment banking group has snapped up an insurance group.the Paribas bid succeeds.
That complex bid was billed as France's largest takeover ever.Suez had just finished winning an even larger battle last year for control of Societe Generale de Belgique.
the new bid in part simply reflects the continuing rivalry between France's two largest investment banking groups.Paribas denies it.
the new bid in part simply reflects the continuing rivalry between France's two largest investment banking groups.It reflects the broader pressure on companies in Europe to keep up as the European Community prepares to reduce internal trade barriers by 1992.
to keep up.the European Community prepares to reduce internal trade barriers by 1992.
he stressed the potential for the two groups instead to cooperate.Paribas Chairman Michel Francois-Poncet wouldn't rule out eventually selling all of Navigation Mixte's insurance operations to Allianz.
eventually selling all of Navigation Mixte's insurance operations to Allianz.to cooperate.
he stressed the potential for the two groups instead to cooperate.He told reporters the acquisition would give Paribas fresh diversity, bringing it properties in food and transport where it has been weak.
Navigation Mixte has investments in a sugar company, a food and canning concern, a bakery and bus and trucking firms, among others.Navigation Mixte has a huge hidden attraction..Payment by Allianz for the insurance interests it has just bought will help swell the French concern's treasury to an estimated 11 billion francs.
it will bid 1,850 francs a share for Navigation Mixte shares that qualify for a full yearly dividend, and 1,800 francs for those created July 1.it would offer three Paribas shares, themselves eligible for dividends as of next Jan. 1, for one Navigation Mixte share.
Paribas shares closed down 30 francs at 610 francs.Navigation Mixte shares were suspended at 1,800 francs pending the outcome of the bid.
it would publish details of its bid.authorities clear it.
bidding.speculation had pushed up the price.
he felt obliged to bid for control.notoriously independent-minded Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier rejected Paribas's offer and began buying Paribas shares in retaliation.
he felt obliged to bid for control.notoriously independent-minded Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier rejected Paribas's offer and began buying Paribas shares in retaliation.
France's second-largest government-owned insurance company, Assurances Generales de France, has been building its own Navigation Mixte stake.they don't think it is contemplating a takeover.
they don't think it is contemplating a takeover, however.its officials couldn't be reached.
Crude oil futures prices fell further.OPEC oil producers aren't putting the brakes on output ahead of the traditionally weak first quarter.
Crude oil futures prices fell further.OPEC oil producers aren't putting the brakes on output ahead of the traditionally weak first quarter.
In trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the U.S. benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude fell 39 cents a barrel to $19.76 for December delivery.Petroleum products prices declined.
That level of production didn't take its toll on futures prices for the fourth quarter, when demand is traditionally strong.because first-quarter demand is normally the weakest of the year OPEC production will have to decline to keep prices from eroding further.
But OPEC production will have to decline to keep prices from eroding further.first-quarter demand is normally the weakest of the year.
Crude oil futures prices fell further as analysts and traders said OPEC oil producers aren't putting the brakes on output ahead of the traditionally weak first quarter.news of a series of explosions at a major Phillips Petroleum Co. chemical facility on the Houston Ship Channel was bearish for prices.
now the facility won't need any, at a time of already high availability.such facilities use a relatively small amount of crude.
the explosions began.a seal blew out.
the explosions began.a seal blew out.
Some petroleum futures traders say technical considerations now will help to put downward pressure on futures prices.one trader said that prices inevitably will go lower now that they've fallen below $20 a barrel.
that prices inevitably will go lower.they've fallen below $20 a barrel.
that prices inevitably will go lower.they've fallen below $20 a barrel.
Our technician is a little bearish.we've taken out $20.
The New York market made its high for the day on the opening.when it dropped below the $1.23-a-pound level, selling picked up as previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in.
and selling picked up.it dropped below the $1.23-a-pound level.
and when it dropped below the $1.23-a-pound level, selling picked up.previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers -- anticipating further declines -- moved in.
and when it dropped below the $1.23-a-pound level, selling picked up as previous buyers bailed out of their positions and aggressive short sellers moved in.Fund selling picked up at that point.
According to Bernard Savaiko, senior commodity analyst at PaineWebber, the only stability to the market came.short sellers periodically moved in to cover their positions by buying contracts.
According to Bernard Savaiko, senior commodity analyst at PaineWebber, the only stability to the market came.short sellers periodically moved in to cover their positions by buying contracts.
This activity produced small rallies.which attracted new short selling.
The sell-off would probably have been worse.the dollar had been strong.
that the next significant support level will be about $1.04.copper falls below the bottom of this range.
Such sales are watched closely by platinum and palladium traders.both metals are used in automobile catalytic converters.
that the news on cold fusion didn't affect the market yesterday.many traders have already been badly burnt by such stories.
the traders are demanding a higher level of proof.they will buy palladium again.
Some traders were thought to be waiting for the auto sales report.weighing on both metals' prices is the role of the chief supplier, the Soviet Union.
Prices closed mixed.contracts reacted to largely offsetting bullish and bearish news.
On the Chicago Board of Trade, soybeans for November delivery closed at $5.63 a bushel, down half a cent.the December wheat contract rose three-quarters of a cent to $4.0775 a bushel.
Supporting prices was the announcement late Friday of additional grain sales to the Soviet Union.acting as a drag on prices was the improved harvest weather over the weekend and the prospect for continued fair weather this week over much of the Farm Belt.
But acting as a drag on prices was the improved harvest weather over the weekend and the prospect for continued fair weather this week over much of the Farm Belt.Strong farmer selling over the weekend weighed on prices.
For the past week or so, traders have been expecting India to buy between 150,000 and 200,000 tons of refined sugar.there have been expectations of a major purchase by Japan.
For the past week or so, traders have been expecting India to buy between 150,000 and 200,000 tons of refined sugar, and there have been expectations of a major purchase by Japan.with no reports of either country actually entering the market, analysts said, futures prices became vulnerable.
Developing countries such as India, some analysts said, seem to have made it a point to stay away whenever sugar reached the top of its trading range, around 14.75 cents, and wait for prices to return to the bottom of the range, around 13.50 cents.Erik Dunlaevy, a sugar analyst with Balfour Maclaine International Ltd., said the explanation for the latest drop in sugar prices is much simpler: Speculators, he said, "got too long too soon and ran into resistance around the old contract highs.
At such prices, according to Mr. Savaiko, bargain hunting and short-covering -- buying back of contracts previously sold -- by speculators isn't uncommon.Mr. Savaiko expects stepped-up producer selling at around the $1,040 to $1,050 level.
But Mr. Savaiko expects stepped-up producer selling at around the $1,040 to $1,050 level.He noted that a strong sterling market yesterday might have helped cocoa in New York as arbitragers took advantage of the currency move.
that a strong sterling market yesterday might have helped cocoa in New York.arbitragers took advantage of the currency move.
which reduces time and materials waste.preparing a press for printing.
Such news is good for bonds.economic weakness sometimes causes the Federal Reserve to lower interest rates in an effort to stimulate the economy and stave off a recession.
Such news is good for bonds.today the Department of Commerce is scheduled to release the September durable goods report..The consensus forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report is for a 1.2% drop in September orders..That would follow a 3.9% advance in August..Bonds received a bigger boost later in the day when stock prices moved broadly lower..The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 26.23 points to 2662.91.
money starts to shift into bonds.you get a big sell-off in equities.
money starts to shift into bonds.you get a big sell-off in equities.
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond ended about 1/2 point higher, or up about $5 for each $1,000 face amount.the yield slid to 7.93% from 7.98% Friday.
Municipals ended mixed.mortgage-backed and investment-grade corporate bonds rose.
In more evidence of the growing division between "good" and "bad" junk bonds, a $150 million issue by Imo Industries Inc. was snapped up by investors.underwriters for Beatrice Co. 's $350 million issue are considering restructuring the deal to attract buyers.
bond prices to trade in narrow ranges this week.the market takes in positive and negative news.
On the negative side, the market will be affected by constant supply in all sectors of the market.we have economic news that is {expected to be} relatively positive for the bond market.
others contend that yesterday's sale of $2.58 billion of asset-backed securities by Ford Motor Credit Corp. may have siphoned some potential institutional buyers from the government's note sale.some say the auction should proceed smoothly.
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value.higher bidding narrows the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
Thus, higher bidding narrows the investor's return.lower bidding widens it.
The percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year.the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
The 13-week bills mature Jan. 25, 1990.the 26-week bills mature April 26, 1990.
It's a segmented market.if you have a good, strong credit, people have an appetite for it.
and people have an appetite for it.you have a good, strong credit.
other high-yield deals to be sweetened or restructured.they are offered to investors.
The Federal National Mortgage Association offered $1.2 billion of Remic securities in three issues.the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. offered a $250 million Remic backed by 9% 15-year securities.
thrifts have stepped up their mortgage securities sales.the bond market has risen in the past two weeks.
Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for November delivery were quoted late yesterday at 98 10/32, up 10/32.Freddie Mac 9% securities were at 97 1/2, up 1/4.
The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 8.36% to a 12-year average life assumption.the spread above the Treasury 10-year note widened slightly to 1.46 percentage points.
The refunding issue, which had been in the wings for two months, was one of the chief offerings overhanging the market and limiting price appreciation.alleviating that overhang failed to stimulate much activity in the secondary market, where prices were off 1/8 to up 3/8 point.
orders for the San Antonio bonds were "on the slow side.the issue would normally be the type purchased by property and casualty insurers, but recent disasters, such as Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake, have stretched insurers' resources and damped their demand for bonds.
In addition the issue would normally be the type purchased by property and casualty insurers.recent disasters, such as Hurricane Hugo and the Northern California earthquake, have stretched insurers' resources and damped their demand for bonds.
Japanese government bonds ended lower.the dollar rose modestly against the yen.
The benchmark 7% bond due October 1999 fell 0.20 point to 99.80 to yield 7.03%.the 6 3/4% notes due July 1994 fell 0.10 to 97.65 to yield 7.34%.
British government bonds ended slightly higher in quiet trading.investors looked ahead to today's British trade report.
The benchmark 11 3/4% Treasury bond due 2003/2007 rose 1/8 to 111 21/32 to yield 10.11%.the 12% issue of 1995 rose 3/32 to 103 23/32 to yield 11.01%.
There have been three days of hot, wind-swept rain.now with the first sun we are after speckled seatrout, which with redfish provides most of the game fishing hereabouts.
The little radio fizzes.other boats want to see if we have found any fish.
The sun is hot now.it's only 8 in the morning.
The guide scoops into a pail and puts a frantically wiggling croaker on the hook.he casts out. "Just wait for that tap-tap, that thump-thump..It comes real gentle before it pulls..Don't forget, trout have very soft mouths.
It comes real gentle.it pulls.
Soon we have our limit of the shimmering fish stippled in rose-gold and black.we are the first back at the dock, where the great blue herons stand waiting by the cleaning benches.
The guide is young.he knows this business.
The guide is young and he knows this business.he wants a different life after college, such as working for IBM and wearing a necktie.
Texas is big and beautiful.they live here.
Deer, wild hog, armadillos and alligators are the glamour quadrupeds.the birds are innumerable, especially the herons and the spoonbills.
Tivoli Motel," I read a sign in the usual pronunciation of the name.we whoosh through.
The company said about half the earnings drop came from the "virtual collapse" of the Venezuelan auto industry.Dana said it was hurt by slumping U.S. truck sales and by a strike at a parts supplier.
Only the bravest spirits survive such roller coasters.for Ms. Baker, the ride was far from over.
Her bare breasts, her dancing, her voice, her beauty and, perhaps most famously, her derriere, were prominent attractions.courage of a rare sort made her remarkable life possible.
Baker had lots of them.she didn't trust them and didn't reward trust.
Baker had lots of them.Her appetite for children was large.
driving her husband first to despair.to Argentina.
She made money, but spent more..Friends pitched in.Prince Rainier and Princess Grace saved her with the offer of a house in Monaco.
She made money, but spent more..Friends pitched in.Prince Rainier and Princess Grace saved her with the offer of a house in Monaco.
African art was in vogue.some intellectuals were writing breathlessly of a dawning age to be inspired by blacks.
To be exotic was to be patronized as well as prized.for the most part Paris was a friendly island in a racist world.
She just wiggled her fanny.all the French fell in love with her.
She just wiggled her fanny.all the French fell in love with her.
that Baker's dancing "had uncovered a new region for desire.and ignoring centuries of tributes to the callipygous.
It is easy to see why Baker, a free spirit who broke many of the restraints convention places on women, attracts Ms. Rose, the author of "Parallel Lives," a wonderful study of Victorian marriage.even the title raises questions about the author's vision of her subject.
Baker was 68 years old.she died in Paris, two days after the sold-out opening of her newest show: a movie-like ending to what was a cinematic life.
when she died in Paris.the sold-out opening of her newest show: a movie-like ending to what was a cinematic life.
when she died in Paris, two days after the sold-out opening of her newest show: a movie-like ending to what was a cinematic life.Ms. Baker played scenes in Casablanca that could have made it into "Casablanca.
to become first a spy.and a one-woman USO tour for the forces of Free France.
The Free French wore black arm bands.when she sang "J'ai deux amours" they wept.
and they wept.she sang "J'ai deux amours.
In her introduction, Ms. Rose writes that she feels she has much in common with Baker.as "Jazz Cleopatra" goes on, it seems more rushed, as though the author were growing less interested.
but it seems more rushed.Jazz Cleopatra" goes on.
it seems more rushed.the author were growing less interested.
The text by Patrick O'Connor is a tough read.the pictures make her magnetism clear and help explain why Ernest Hemingway called Baker "The most sensational woman anybody ever saw..Or ever will.
Manville, having rid itself of asbestos, now sells fiberglass, forest products, minerals and industrial goods..Heady stuff it's not.Manville's ownership is unusual, and it has caught the eye of some canny -- and patient -- investors.
But Manville's ownership is unusual.it has caught the eye of some canny -- and patient -- investors.
it will need to convert its Manville stock to cash.the trust runs out of cash.
it will need to convert its Manville stock to cash.the trust runs out of cash.
When and if the trust runs out of cash -- which seems increasingly likely -- it will need to convert its Manville stock to cash.as an 80% owner, if it tried to sell much of its stock in the market, it would likely depress the price of its shares.
But as an 80% owner it would likely depress the price of its shares.it tried to sell much of its stock in the market.
to sell much of its stock in the market.that the trust will seek to convert the company's shares to cash, in some sort of friendly restructuring that wouldn't involve just dumping stock on the market.
they'd be chasing their own tail.they tried to sell.
The trust isn't commenting on when it might need to liquefy its Manville stock.the trust's cash flow from investments is far short of its payments to asbestos victims.
that the trust will, instead, seek to convert the company's shares to cash, in some sort of friendly restructuring that wouldn't involve just dumping stock on the market.The trust will receive $75 million a year starting in 1991 on a bond it holds from Manville.
The trust also will receive $75 million a year starting in 1991 on a bond it holds from Manville.beginning in 1992, it will have a claim on as much as 20% of Manville's annual net income.
The average should drop over time.the most expensive claims are being settled first.
As of June 30, it had settled only about 15,000 of the 81,000 received claims from asbestos victims, for an average of $40,424 each.as of midyear, settled but unpaid claims amounted to $136 million -- more than half the trust's total of $268 million in cash and marketable securities.
It doesn't pay a dividend.this trust needs income.
It doesn't pay a dividend, and this trust needs income.with 88% of its assets tied up in Manville, the trust is badly in need of diversification.
the company is continually pondering "whether there is a better way to be structured.the ink is barely dry on its new, post-bankruptcy law structure.
Of course, one option would be for Manville to buy out the trust's shares.the trust, in most cases, is forbidden from seeking a buyer for only its shares before November 1993.
Of course, one option would be for Manville to buy out the trust's shares -- which would do little to benefit public stockholders..But the trust, in most cases, is forbidden from seeking a buyer for only its shares before November 1993.both the trust and Manville are seeking to avoid the bad publicity that, in the asbestos era, tarred the Manville name.
And both the trust and Manville are seeking to avoid the bad publicity that, in the asbestos era, tarred the Manville name.the trust is unlikely to do anything that would hurt Manville's other shareholders.
Manville seems to be attractive long-term.there is no restructuring.
Analysts predict little or no near-term growth.They are high on Manville's management.
It's one of the best in the business.Manville has the financial flexibility to buy other companies at the best possible momentwhen other construction-related firms are hurting and selling cheap.
Manville has the financial flexibility to buy other companies at the best possible momentwhen other construction-related firms are hurting and selling cheap.With a conservative debt-to-equity ratio of 1-to-1 -- and $329 million in cash -- Manville is actively on the prowl.
they have been disciplined about acquisitions.they have borrowing power.
Even though they have borrowing power, they have been disciplined about acquisitions.that with 80% of its stock in friendly hands, Manville is the rare publicly traded company that can ignore short-term stock fluctuations and plan for the long haul.
The FTC's request was "not unusual according to a spokesman.Emerson will make a "full and prompt" response.
The FTC's request was "not unusual according to a spokesman.Emerson will make a "full and prompt" response.
the sale is expected to close by year's end.approved.
As a result of the partial sale and spinoff, the $56 billion California Public Employees Retirement System would obtain two seats on the board of the real estate operation, according to officials of the fund, who described the plan.holding two seats each on the board would be Olympia & York Developments Ltd., controlled by the Reichmann family of Canada, and Itel Corp., controlled by Chicago businessman Sam Zell.
Itel bought a 17% stake in Sante Fe Pacific last year.Olympia & York later purchased about a 20% stake.
Itel bought a 17% stake in Sante Fe Pacific last year.and Olympia & York purchased about a 20% stake.
Pension funds rarely own as much as a 20% stake in what is expected to be a publicly traded company.pension funds are rarely given seats on company boards and most often try to avoid them because of legal concerns.
Pension funds rarely own as much as a 20% stake in what is expected to be a publicly traded company..In addition, pension funds are rarely given seats on company boards and most often try to avoid them because of legal concerns.the Santa Fe Pacific Realty investment provides an opportunity to buy a stake in a large real estate portfolio heavily weighted with California properties..It also marks a "major commitment to {real estate} development, which we haven't been involved with before.
the Santa Fe Pacific Realty investment provides an opportunity to buy a stake in a large real estate portfolio heavily weighted with California properties.It marks a "major commitment to {real estate} development.
As a result of the partial sale and spinoff, the $56 billion California Public Employees Retirement System would obtain two seats on the board of the real estate operation, according to officials of the fund, who described the plan.Under the proposed plan, the fund would lend Santa Fe Pacific Realty $75 million in the form of a note that would be convertible into additional shares of the realty company after the second year at the then-prevailing market price.
that Santa Fe Pacific Realty would repay more than $500 million in debt owed to the parent.the planned spinoff.
Santa Fe Pacific Realty owns 2.8 million acres of property, including 219 buildings with more than 11 million square feet of space.It holds nearly 40,000 acres of raw land with development potential.
It also holds nearly 40,000 acres of raw land with development potential.under a previously announced strategy, the company has targeted building on 5,400 acres in California, Arizona and the Chicago area.
The California pension fund, which has $16 billion already invested in real estate and mortgages, could be a valuable funding source for that development.it isn't obliged to make further investments.
The fund is the nation's largest public employee fund.it has a growing cash flow now topping $3 billion a year.
Fund officials negotiated the final structure of the proposed deal with Santa Fe Pacific.they were approached with the idea by real estate brokers JMB Realty Corp. of Chicago.
The first two GAF trials were watched closely on Wall Street.they were considered to be important tests of the government's ability to convince a jury of allegations stemming from its insider-trading investigations.
who was implicated by former arbitrager Ivan Boesky.and pointed the finger at Mr. Sherwin, takeover speculator Salim B. Lewis and corporate raider Paul Bilzerian.
The first two GAF trials were watched closely on Wall Street because they were considered to be important tests of the government's ability to convince a jury of allegations stemming from its insider-trading investigations.GAF's bellwether role was short-lived.
The first GAF trial ended in a mistrial after four weeks.U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe found that a prosecutor improperly, but unintentionally, withheld a document.
The first GAF trial ended in a mistrial after four weeks.U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe found that a prosecutor improperly, but unintentionally, withheld a document.
After 93 hours of deliberation, the jurors in the second trial said they were hopelessly deadlocked.another mistrial was declared on March 22.
After 93 hours of deliberation, the jurors in the second trial said they were hopelessly deadlocked.another mistrial was declared on March 22.
The first GAF trial ended in a mistrial after four weeks when U.S. District Judge Mary Johnson Lowe found that a prosecutor improperly, but unintentionally, withheld a document..After 93 hours of deliberation, the jurors in the second trial said they were hopelessly deadlocked, and another mistrial was declared on March 22.a federal jury found Mr. Bilzerian guilty on securities fraud and other charges in June.
But GAF's bellwether role was short-lived.the stakes are still high for the players directly involved in the GAF case.
that throughout September, defense attorneys were talking with the government in an effort to prevent a trial.by the end of the month the talks had ended.
Yogi Berra's famous line is apt: `It's deja vu all over again.we go in for the third time.
The bankruptcy-court reorganization is being challenged before the Supreme Court by a dissident group of claimants.it places a cap on the total amount of money available to settle claims.
because it places a cap on the total amount of money available to settle claims.It bars future suits against Robins company officials, members of the Robins family and Robins's former insurer, Aetna Life & Casualty Co.
such proceedings give it protection from creditor lawsuits.it works out a plan for paying its debts.
American Home Products Corp. wants to acquire Robins.only if all legal challenges to the plan are exhausted.
American Home Products Corp. wants to acquire Robins.but all legal challenges to the plan are exhausted.
for raising "abstract" and "theoretical" legal issues.jeopardizing the proposed reorganization and the settlement payments to claimants.
Criminal convictions under the federal Superfund law are rare.the decision is the first jury verdict in such a case.
virtually all of the Superfund cases to date have involved civil penalties designed to insure cleanup of past polluting activities.Superfund also contains a criminal provision concerning the release of toxic substances into the environment.
virtually all of the Superfund cases to date have involved civil penalties designed to insure cleanup of past polluting activities.But Superfund contains a criminal provision concerning the release of toxic substances into the environment.
Mr. Donohoo was convicted in Louisville late last month of violating Superfund by failing to report the release of asbestos into the environment from a building he was demolishing.He was convicted of failing to properly remove asbestos from the building, a violation of the Clean Air Act.
The government sought a criminal penalty.no cleanup is possible here.
it can lodge anywhere.{asbestos} is released into the environment.
that there is no mandatory appellate review of capital sentences.that the inmate who filed the appeal lacks proper standing.
whether the new case posed a conflict.that no objections were raised.
the trial team that represented Mr. Bundy was asked by the firm's pro bono committee whether the new case posed a conflict and that no objections were raised.The coupling of the law firm and the Washington Legal Foundation is odd because Wilmer Cutler was one of the firms singled out for criticism two years ago by the conservative legal group for displaying a liberal bias in its pro bono work.
The coupling of the law firm and the Washington Legal Foundation is odd also.Wilmer Cutler was one of the firms singled out for criticism two years ago by the conservative legal group for displaying a liberal bias in its pro bono work.
The posters were sold for $1,300 to $6,000.they had a value of only $53 to $200 apiece.
about 1,000 customers were defrauded.that Barclay's total proceeds from the sales were $3.4 million.
that they had believed that the works were authorized by Mr. Dali.their clients admitted to making some misrepresentations in the sales.
Mr. Payne lauded Mr. Decker's "extraordinary . . . skills" and his "outstanding reputation as one of the West's brightest bankers.he was hired.
its condition has improved since Mr. Decker took over.the bank isn't performing as well as some of its competitors in the lucrative California market.
its condition has improved.Mr. Decker took over.
For the six months ended June 30, it earned $3.1 million, or 61 cents a share, compared with net income of $2.4 million, or 41 cents a share, a year earlier.Its stock has risen lately.
Its stock also has risen lately.it is considered a possible takeover candidate.
Interstate banking is scheduled to begin in California in 1991.larger California banks, such as Wells Fargo & Co., have been paying fat premiums to buy smaller banks to control markets before any out-of-state banks enter the fray.
Interstate banking is scheduled to begin in California in 1991.larger California banks, such as Wells Fargo & Co., have been paying fat premiums to buy smaller banks to control markets before any out-of-state banks enter the fray.
to buy smaller banks to control markets.any out-of-state banks enter the fray.
For the full fiscal year, Varian posted a 13% profit rise to $31.5 million, or $1.53 a share, up from $27.8 million, or $1.27 a share, last year..Sales for the year rose almost 15% to $1.34 billion from $1.17 billion last year..A profit last year in both the quarter and year included a net gain of $9.6 million, or 44 cents a share, from the sale of a division.the full-year profit last year reflected an after-tax restructuring charge of $22.8 million, or $1.04 a share.
struggling since summer to avoid a bankruptcy-law filing.missing interest payments on about $1 billion of debt.
it will exercise that right.it sells substantially all of its other core businesses.
The financial-services firm will retain the right to regain the subsidiary.It can sell the right to regain the subsidiary to another party.
it agreed in principle to transfer ownership of its broker-dealer subsidiary to two of its top executives.the broker-dealer subsidiary, Integrated Resources Equity Corp., was renamed Royal Alliance Associates Inc.
the representatives will retain their 49% ownership.Integrated regains Royal Alliance.
that completion of the transaction could take several weeks.it wasn't immediately clear what would happen to the broker-dealer subsidiary if Integrated files for bankruptcy-law protection in the meantime.
what would happen to the broker-dealer subsidiary.Integrated files for bankruptcy-law protection in the meantime.
it would receive any profit the unit reports.Integrated regains the unit.
it would receive any profit the unit reports.the unit is independent.
the two officers will draw salaries from the independent operation, not from Integrated.the deal closes.
Integrated made its announcement.the market closed.
The dollar weakened in indecisive trading.foreign-exchange dealers awaited fresh economic news that they hope will jolt the U.S. unit out of its narrow ranges.
that after a week of nervously tracking every development on Wall Street, the foreign-exchange market has settled back to catch its breath ahead of new U.S. economic data.that a 26-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average gave the dollar a sharp nudge downward late in the day.
the U.S. unit to rally sharply on the news.it turns out as expected.
Everyone is waiting for GNP.even a relatively strong number -- 2.8% to 2.9% -- won't alter the market's view that the economy is softening.
Analysts predict a 3.5% rise in the deflator.climbing 4.6% in the second quarter.
that hopes for a sustained narrowing of the trade deficit were dashed and sentiment gripped the market that the U.S. economy was losing its momentum.an unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap in August was reported earlier this month.
that hopes for a sustained narrowing of the trade deficit were dashed and sentiment gripped the market that the U.S. economy was losing its momentum.an unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap in August was reported earlier this month.
that hopes for a sustained narrowing of the trade deficit were dashed.sentiment gripped the market that the U.S. economy was losing its momentum.
we're certainly headed for a major slowdown.we're not headed for a recession.
that the figures will probably serve to reinforce this bearish sentiment.the market expects little reaction from news of U.S. durable goods orders.
U.S. durable goods orders are expected to show a decline of 1.2% in September, according to economists.that while there is little enthusiasm for buying dollars, the U.S. unit has found a "natural bottom" at about 1.85 marks and 140 yen.
that the U.S. unit has found a "natural bottom" at about 1.85 marks and 140 yen.there is little enthusiasm for buying dollars.
Liz Claiborne Inc., New York, said its third-quarter net income jumped 62%, citing continued strength in apparel sales and the start of shipments of its new product lines: a men's fragrance, large-size women's apparel and casual knitwear.Claiborne's directors declared its regular cash dividend payment of five cents a share payable on Dec. 5 to shareholders of record at the close of business on Nov. 13.
Tokyo stocks closed firmer Monday, with the Nikkei index making its fifth consecutive daily gain.Stocks rose in London.
Stocks also rose in London.the Frankfurt market was mixed.
The index moved above 35670 at midmorning, nearly reaching the record of 35689.98 set Sept. 28.the market lost part of the early gains on index-linked investment trust fund selling.
that some investors took profits against the backdrop of the Nikkei's fast-paced recovery following its plunge last Monday in reaction to the Oct. 13 drop in New York stock prices.overall buying interest remained strong through Monday.
Relatively stable foreign currency dealings Monday were viewed favorably by market players.institutional investors may wait a little longer to appraise the direction of the U.S. monetary policy and the dollar.
Teijin was up 15 at 936.Kyowa Hakko gained 30 to 1,770.
Limited volume ahead of the September trade data showed the market is nervous.that the day's modest gains also signaled some support for London equities.
Limited volume ahead of the September trade data showed the market is nervous.that the day's modest gains signaled some support for London equities.
Analysts' expectations suggest a September current account deficit of #1.6 billion ($2.54 billion), compared with August's #2.0 billion deficit.Dealers said forecasts are broadly divergent with estimates ranging between #1 billion and #2 billion.
Lucas Industries, a British automotive and aerospace concern, rose 13 pence to 614 pence.it said its pretax profit for the year rose 28%.
Share prices on the Frankfurt stock exchange closed narrowly mixed in quiet dealings.recovering most of their early losses.
The DAX index eased 0.99 point to end at 1523.22.falling 5.5 points early in the session.
the declines early in the day were partly caused by losses of the ruling Christian-Democratic Union in communal elections in the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.there was little selling pressure, and even small orders at the lower levels sufficed to bring the market back to Friday's opening levels.
But there was little selling pressure.even small orders at the lower levels sufficed to bring the market back to Friday's opening levels.
The market is still 4% short of its level before the plunge.analysts aren't sure how long it will take until the DAX has closed that gap.
how long it will take.the DAX has closed that gap.
The market is still 4% short of its level before the plunge, and analysts aren't sure how long it will take until the DAX has closed that gap.he expects share prices to move upward in the coming weeks.
Banking stocks were the major gainers Monday amid hope that interest rates have peaked.Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank added 4 marks each to 664 marks ($357) and 326 marks, respectively.
Banking stocks were the major gainers Monday amid hope that interest rates have peaked.Deutsche Bank and Dresdner Bank added 4 marks each to 664 marks ($357) and 326 marks, respectively.
Auto shares were mixed.Daimler-Benz firmed 2 to 723, Bayerische Motoren Werke lost the same amount to 554, and Volkswagen inched down 1.4 to 451.6.
Auto shares were mixed.Daimler-Benz firmed 2 to 723, Bayerische Motoren Werke lost the same amount to 554, and Volkswagen inched down 1.4 to 451.6.
as Daimler-Benz firmed 2 to 723, Bayerische Motoren Werke lost the same amount to 554.Volkswagen inched down 1.4 to 451.6.
it entered into an agreement in principle to sell its pump and tank division and drilling division to GSX Chemical Services for $4 million.GSX Chemical will assume about $1.6 million in debt related to those divisions.
GSX Chemical also will assume about $1.6 million in debt related to those divisions.GSX will buy $1 million of Enviropact common stock, at $2.625 a share, plus an option to acquire an additional $1.5 million of common at the same price.
A number of major banks have posted big losses.sharply increasing loan-loss reserves.
Mr. Brooks declined to give his age.his leaving is a normal retirement.
Clairol was a division of Bristol-Myers Co.that company's merger with Squibb Corp.
the Guadalajara factory will employ about 1,500 workers and have annual operating expenses of $5 million to $6 million.fully operational.
AT&T already has a factory in Matamoros, Mexico, to make electrical devices.It purchases data systems products from a manufacturer based in Monterrey.
the stock also fell $1.125 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, to $51.75.Cummins's stock stumbled last month.
Although Cummins's stock stumbled last month.the company projected a "substantial" third-period loss.
Although Cummins's stock stumbled last month after the company projected a "substantial" third-period loss.the stock fell $1.125 in composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday, to $51.75.
Neither suit lists specific dollar claims.damage assessment hasn't yet been completed.
Litigation could drag on for years.not settled out of court.
dumped.one of its tankers ran into an underwater reef.
that use of dispersants, which break an oil slick into microscopic droplets, was a crucial part of its immediate-response plan.that state officials banned their use during the two days of fair weather following the spill.
Exxon's charges aren't relevant.tests conducted during the first two days following the spill showed that the dispersant wasn't working anyway.
Use of dispersants was approved.a test on the third day showed some positive results.
Use of dispersants was approved.a test on the third day showed some positive results.
The package was termed excessive by the Bush administration.it also provoked a struggle with influential California lawmakers who sought unsuccessfully to add nearly $1 billion more and waive current restrictions to expedite the distribution of funds.
The package was termed excessive by the Bush administration.but it provoked a struggle with influential California lawmakers who sought unsuccessfully to add nearly $1 billion more and waive current restrictions to expedite the distribution of funds.
By a 26-7 margin, the committee scuttled the more expensive alternative.the debate forced a strained confrontation between Appropriations Committee Chairman Jamie Whitten (D., Miss.) and his party's largest state delegation in the House.
and the debate forced a strained confrontation between Appropriations Committee Chairman Jamie Whitten (D., Miss.) and his party's largest state delegation in the House.who sought to play down the sometimes hostile tone of the long evening meeting.
We are the Golden State.there is a certain amount of jealousy.
We are the Golden State.there is a certain amount of jealousy.
The measure is expected to come before the House today.Congress is under pressure to complete action before midnight EDT tomorrow, when the current continuing resolution expires.
Given California's size and political importance, the White House is eager to appear generous.in private meetings yesterday, Budget Director Richard Darman argued that only $1.5 billion in new federal appropriations are needed to supplement existing resources.
A White House budget office analysis estimates that $500 million -- or half the level in the committee bill -- is needed for highway assistance to meet California's needs.the administration rejects the notion that new appropriations are needed to finance disaster loans by the Small Business Administration.
that it is a national disaster.that we've got to address it.
that it is a national disaster.that we've got to address it.
where you have a bidding war.and a veto threat.
no single influence was greater than Mr. Whitten.this White House pressure was clearly a factor among committee Republicans.
Mr. Whitten insisted that the full 14 pages be read aloud by the panel's clerk.Mr. Fazio offered the California-backed $3.84 billion plan.
On the chairman's motion, the California package was subsequently reduced to less-binding report language.even when this was accepted as such on a voice vote, Mr. Whitten pointedly opposed it.
and Mr. Whitten pointedly opposed it.this was accepted as such on a voice vote.
and Mr. Whitten pointedly opposed it.this was accepted as such on a voice vote.
Mr. Whitten's package appears to accomplish this purpose.the state faces more resistance in its bid for an extended waiver on having to put up any matching funds on repairs completed in the next six months.
The California Democrat appeared embarrassed by provisions inserted on behalf of owners of private beaches in the Virgin Islands.lumber interests sought to add another $100 million in federal aid to plant timber on private land in North and South Carolina.
It recently introduced a line for the home market.The company continues to require additional funding to realize the potential of its technology.
which makes an automated process system that improves the yields of semiconductor manufacturers.which provides technical temporary employment services to aerospace, defense, computer and high-tech companies in the Southwest and Baltimore-Washington areas.
In a foreign-policy address before the Soviet legislature, the foreign minister conceded that the radar station in Krasnoyarsk breached the superpower Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty and said it would be dismantled.He denounced Moscow's nine-year involvement in the war in Afghanistan, saying it involved "gross violations of . . . civil norms and ethics.
Travelers crowded into subways, sat in traffic jams on major freeways or waited for buses in the rain.the massive gridlock anticipated by officials in the San Francisco Bay area never materialized.
the condition of freeway survivor Buck Helm, who spent four days trapped under rubble, improved.the death toll from last week's temblor climbed to 61.
the condition of freeway survivor Buck Helm, who spent four days trapped under rubble, improved.Rescue crews gave up hope that others would be found alive under the collapsed roadway.
A crowd estimated at 100,000 held a torch-lit march through Budapest.Acting President Szuros delivered a nationally televised address rejecting communist dominance.
About 200,000 East Germans marched in Leipzig.thousands more staged protests in three other cities in a fresh challenge to the Communist leadership to introduce democratic freedoms.
About 200,000 East Germans marched in Leipzig and thousands more staged protests in three other cities in a fresh challenge to the Communist leadership to introduce democratic freedoms.In an East Berlin suburb employees at an electronics plant formed an independent trade union called Reform.
About 200,000 East Germans marched in Leipzig and thousands more staged protests in three other cities in a fresh challenge to the Communist leadership to introduce democratic freedoms.In an East Berlin suburb employees at an electronics plant formed an independent trade union called Reform.
The five astronauts returned to Earth about three hours early.high winds had been predicted at the landing site.
More than 100 people were injured.a number of workers were missing.
The statement came.officials said Bush complained at a private meeting last week that a strict interpretation of a policy requires the U.S. to notify foreign dictators of certain coup plots.
Lebanon's Gen. Aoun placed Christian military forces on alert in case of renewed fighting with Syrian-backed Moslems.Lebanon's two main Shiite militias rejected an Arab-sponsored peace accord.
to call for a reduction in nuclear forces in Europe.the alliance's nuclear planning group convenes a two-day session today in Portugal.
Commonwealth leaders turned to issues ranging from drugs to the world economy.Zimbabwe's President Mugabe called Thatcher's views on South Africa "despicable.
after Zimbabwe's President Mugabe called Thatcher's views on South Africa "despicable.At a meeting in Malaysia, Australia and Canada assailed the British prime minister for criticizing the 49-nation group's call for Pretoria to ease apartheid.
it dropped its plan to liquidate.it wasn't able to realize the value it had expected.
after a government audit cited National Technical Schools for having courses too short to be eligible for the educational loan program and having a student drop-out rate far in excess of federal standards.it alleged other serious violations of law and regulations.
Chairman Edward L. Hennessy Jr. said that a drop in sales of auto and truck parts contributed to lower earnings in the automotive unit.He cited unfavorable foreign-exchange rates and a lower tax rate.
Congress tightened auto safety standards for gray-market imports.U.S. auto dealers, including franchised foreign-car dealers, complained that they often were blamed when the second and third buyers of such vehicles found that the cars couldn't meet U.S. auto safety standards.
that they often were blamed.the second and third buyers of such vehicles found that the cars couldn't meet U.S. auto safety standards.
it expects to report net income for its fiscal year ended Sept. 29 of a record $15 million, or $1.15 a share, up 43% from $10.5 million, or 80 cents a share, for the prior year.The Costa Mesa, Calif., maker of computer tape drives projected record revenue for the year of $181 million, up from $122.7 million for the previous year.
a reserve it is establishing to cover expected pollution cleanup costs at an Ohio plant reduced its third-quarter net income by $1.9 million.it signed a consent decree with Ohio to build a $1.4 million pollution-control facility at the Ashtabula chemical manufacturing plant by Aug. 1, 1990.
Remaining units will be sold to the underwriters, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. and Kidder, Peabody & Co.which will purchase an over-allotment of 2.3 million additional units.
the offering will raise about $299 million -- minus underwriting fees and other expenses -- that the company plans to use to write new life insurance and annuity business.analysts have viewed the rights offering as a takeover defense that prospectively balloons the number of shares outstanding.
UNITED AIR'S PARENT quashed any prospects for an immediate revival of the labor-management buy-out, saying UAL should remain independent for now.UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf pulled out of the buy-out effort to focus on running the company.
Stock prices fell.bonds rose.
Stock prices fell and bonds rose.worries mounted about the economy and the junk bond market.
Stock prices fell.The dollar declined.
Thrifts continued to shed assets in August.withdrawals exceeded deposits by $5.1 billion in the month.
that you don't attempt to seize the whole business.the offense deals with one part of the business.
to limit pretrial asset seizures.there are less intrusive means of protecting assets the government may subsequently be able to seize after a conviction.
Sen. Alan Cranston trekked over to the House side of Capitol Hill a few days ago and volunteered his testimony to fellow Democrat Rep. Henry Gonzalez.instead of thanks, Sen. Cranston was treated with cool formality.
then that's a no-no in my book.you reach a point where a policy-making body is trying to shape administrative decisions.
he considers intervening with regulators to be improper.he has attached himself to the Lincoln story tenaciously. "Unless the questions are answered, I will keep on going.
I will keep on going.the questions are answered.
Lawmakers often are reluctant to embarrass colleagues, even those of opposing political parties.In the recent Housing and Urban Development Department scandal Rep. Thomas Lantos, the California Democrat who led the hearings, tiptoed through embarrassing disclosures about HUD grants secured by Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, a New York Republican.
Lawmakers often are reluctant to embarrass colleagues, even those of opposing political parties.Chairman Gonzalez is a genuine maverick.
But Chairman Gonzalez is a genuine maverick.Mr. Gonzalez is a stickler for ethical standards who refuses to accept honorariums and who believes in conducting official business in the open.
who refuses to accept honorariums.who believes in conducting official business in the open.
Early in his political career, as a city councilman in San Antonio, he walked out of a meeting.political supporters asked that the police chief be replaced.
As the principal regulator of the thrift industry, Mr. Wall delayed seizing Lincoln S&L for more than two years.his staff told him that the California thrift was insolvent and that potential losses to taxpayers were growing rapidly.
that the California thrift was insolvent.that potential losses to taxpayers were growing rapidly.
that the California thrift was insolvent.that potential losses to taxpayers were growing rapidly.
to lash out at Mr. Wall.hearings resume Thursday with testimony by two federal regulators from San Francisco, William Black and Mike Patriarca.
I think he is trying to improperly influence a witness.by God I'm not going to tolerate it.
I think he is trying to improperly influence a witness, and by God I'm not going to tolerate it.Mr. Wall is a self-proclaimed "child of the Senate" and former staff director of its Banking Committee.
I couldn't believe that they were going to go ahead and do this.I first got a glimpse at the witness list.
When I first got a glimpse at the witness list, I couldn't believe that they were going to go ahead and do this," says Michael Waldman, director of Congress Watch, a consumer group. "There are some witnesses who will be forced to testify about their meetings with senators.a Democratic aide to a Banking Committee member remarks, "I too am astounded by it, because Gonzalez has certainly placed a lot of Democratic senators in a very bad position.
I too am astounded by it.Gonzalez has certainly placed a lot of Democratic senators in a very bad position.
Mr. Keating lives in Phoenix.the California thrift's parent is an Ohio-chartered corporation with holdings in Michigan.
He's wise, he's good.he's an honest man.
Chairman Gonzalez expresses sympathy for Sen. Riegle, his counterpart as chairman of the Senate Banking Committee.at the same time, Mr. Gonzalez hasn't forgotten a confrontation over Mr. Wall during House-Senate negotiations over S&L bailout legislation during the summer.
Most importantly, the Senate traded away the Bush administration's controversial plan to finance the bailout.which was partly reinstated.
that they "could get some roadblocks out of the way.there could be some understanding on Garn's insistence on Wall.
Mr. Keating raised $20,000 for Rep. Doug Barnard's 1986 re-election campaign.the Georgia Democrat was taking his side against regulators who wanted to curb risky investments and wholesale deposit brokering.
He recently voted "present.the committee authorized a subpoena to compel Mr. Keating to testify.
He recently voted "present.changed his vote to yes.
Even some House Banking Committee members could suffer from the fallout.the chairman's supporters have the upper hand as federal regulators press a $1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others.
But the chairman's supporters have the upper hand.federal regulators press a $1.1 billion fraud suit against Mr. Keating and others.
A witness set to testify on Thursday was quoted in a news report over the weekend as saying Lincoln "laundered" campaign contributions illegally.the witness, William Crawford, California's chief state thrift regulator, denies saying that.
I don't know whether it was done properly or not.I'm not a lawyer.
I don't know whether it was done properly or not, because I'm not a lawyer.he is prepared to testify that executives of Lincoln and its parent corporation got unusually high salaries and frequent calls directing them to make specific contributions.
An inquiry into his handling of Lincoln S&L inevitably will drag in Sen. Cranston and the four others, Sens..Dennis DeConcini (D., Ariz.), John McCain (R., Ariz.), John Glenn (D., Ohio) and Donald Riegle (D., Mich.).The committee has summoned Mr. Wall's predecessor, Edwin Gray.
He has characterized the five senators' roles as "tantamount to an attempt to subvert the . . . regulatory process.he isn't expected to back down even though the five senators have disputed his account of a 1987 meeting.
and he isn't expected to back down.the five senators have disputed his account of a 1987 meeting.
He has characterized the five senators' roles as "tantamount to an attempt to subvert the . . . regulatory process," and he isn't expected to back down even though the five senators have disputed his account of a 1987 meeting.the senators must brace themselves.
Sen. Cranston sighed to an aide: "Well, back to Keatingland.he returned to the capital last week from a one-day trip to inspect earthquake damage in San Francisco.
they started life in Los Angeles with only $400.Anne Volokh and her family immigrated to the U.S. 14 years ago.
They'd actually left the Soviet Union with $480.during a stop in Italy Ms. Volokh dropped $80 on a black velvet suit.
she spent $120 she didn't have for a hat.she arrived in L.A.
though it wasn't the time for that 14 years ago.I loved turbans.
she has an outsized personality and dramatic flair that seem perfectly suited to capitalism as it is practiced in Hollywood.Ms. Volokh is a small woman.
Certainly life for her has changed considerably since the days in Kiev, when she lived with her parents, her husband and her two sons in a 2 1/2-room apartment in what she calls "silent internal immigration," dreaming of escape.Now she owns 48 hats.
Certainly life for her has changed considerably since the days in Kiev.she remembers the lean years.
I used to wear hats in Russia.I had to make them and my dresses.
you give parties.you are born to give parties.
I like rather tea.it is at the end of the day.
It's supposed to be later.I just moved it.
She serves high Russian tea, at 5 p.m.She frequently invites directors, producers, actors, writers and other show business people for "coffee and clips in the pleasure dome.
She was interested.she could guide it editorially as well.
She wants things to be exciting.she has this inexhaustible energy.
She'll think of an idea the editorial people think is impossible.she'll have us make it work.
She was interested only if she could guide it editorially as well. "Anne doesn't believe in blandness," said Ms. Smith. "She wants things to be exciting..And she has this inexhaustible energy..She'll think of an idea the editorial people think is impossible, then she'll have us make it work.Ms. Volokh wasn't just a rich lady who needed a hobby.
I don't trust people who don't eat," said Ms. Volokh.she herself stopped eating lunch a few years ago to drop 25 pounds.
with the blini recipe revised.it works.
I emigrated to wear better hats, do better parties.we shouldn't leave out political reasons, number one.
how you live.you live those double and triple lives.
the government required her mother to obtain permission from her first husband.granting Ms. Volokh's parents a visa.
Their visa came in relatively short order.they moved to Los Angeles.
Their visa came in relatively short order.they moved to Los Angeles.
Mr. Volokh soon found work in his field.Ms. Volokh refused the obvious and available occupation-as translatorfor a Russian who spoke fluent English.
attended secretarial school.went to work for a fund-raising organization.
she worked as business manager, bookkeeper and publicist.her husband and son founded their computer company, Vesoft.
It's an extremely complex market.you have to be prepared to make a big commitment.
corporate America is flocking to Moscow, lured by a huge untapped market and Mikhail Gorbachev's attempt to overhaul the Soviet economy.while U.S. interest may be big and growing, the difficulties that have stymied deals in the past show no sign of abating.
But the difficulties that have stymied deals in the past show no sign of abating.U.S. interest may be big and growing.
Changing legislation has opened the field to thousands of inexperienced Soviet players, many who promise more than they can deliver.some foreign firms are finding that even when they manage to overcome such hurdles, their ventures now have to be endorsed by such unpredictable bodies as the Soviet parliament and the governments of the nation's republics.
that their ventures now have to be endorsed by such unpredictable bodies as the Soviet parliament and the governments of the nation's republics.they manage to overcome such hurdles.
that their ventures now have to be endorsed by such unpredictable bodies as the Soviet parliament and the governments of the nation's republics.they manage to overcome such hurdles.
The plans have come under fire from Soviet environmentalists.many are likely to be scaled back or dropped.
The plans have come under fire from Soviet environmentalists.many are likely to be scaled back or dropped.
by spending two hours walking around the U.S. trade show last week.Talking to a small group of U.S. executives.
Mr. Gorbachev appeared impatient for a big expansion in U.S.-Soviet trade.According to several people present at the meeting, Mr. Gorbachev supported the idea of concluding several commercial accords with the U.S., possibly at his next summit meeting with President Bush.
Hundreds of people lined up every day at the Colgate-Palmolive Co. stand to receive a free tube of toothpaste, a commodity in chronically short supply here.unruly crowds at RJR Nabisco Inc. 's booth almost knocked over a glass showcase in the rush to get a free Camel cigarette sticker.
Some U.S. products are filtering into the Soviet market under an emergency import program.the current Soviet purchasing spree may be a one-time affair.
companies that hope to set up production facilities here must either export some of the goods to earn hard currency or find Soviet goods they can take in a counter-trade transaction.the Soviet ruble isn't convertible into dollars, marks and other Western currencies.
companies that hope to set up production facilities here must either export some of the goods to earn hard currency or find Soviet goods they can take in a counter-trade transaction.International competition for the few Soviet goods that can be sold on world markets is heating up.
General Electric Co. was given an $89.6 million Navy contract for nuclear propulsion parts.Westinghouse Electric Corp. won a $75.5 million Navy contract for nuclear propulsion parts.
The move will give Nuovo Banco a badly needed foreign presence, and make Credit Agricole the bank's largest shareholder.It opens a rift in the bank's shareholders' syndicate that could lead to a battle for control of the concern.
Nuovo Banco will become Italy's biggest private-sector bank.it completes its scheduled merger with Banca Cattolica del Venetoen by year end.
Gemina, which owns 13.26% of Nuovo Banco, abstained in the final vote on Credit Agricole.which was approved by a majority of shareholders.
Qintex Australia hasn't disclosed its borrowings.analysts estimate the company's debt at A$1.2 billion.
The sales are expected to raise more than 600 million Australian dollars (US$462.2 million), Mr. Skase said.Mr. Skase said the restructuring plan calls for the merger of Qintex Australia with Qintex Ltd.
He said the move will "significantly reduce administrative and operating costs.he didn't provide details of the merger.
The company's latest moves were disclosed.the Australian Stock Exchange suspended trading in shares of Qintex Australia and Qintex Ltd.
The company's latest moves were disclosed after the Australian Stock Exchange suspended trading in shares of Qintex Australia and Qintex Ltd.the companies hadn't answered an exchange inquiry about the extent of their loans, investments and deposits at Qintex Entertainment.
It said Qintex Entertainment owes Qintex Australia US$38.1 million in loans not secured by specific assets.Qintex Australia said it has an investment of A$83.3 million in Qintex Entertainment shares.
Qintex Australia plunged to 16 Australian cents (12 U.S. cents) a share yesterday from 33 Australian cents Friday.its shares were suspended from trading.
MGM/UA has sued Qintex Australia for breach of contract and fraud over the collapsed acquisition agreement.Qintex Australia has threatened a countersuit.
Shareholders' funds as of July 31 were estimated at more than A$1 billion, Mr. Skase said, compared with A$725 million a year earlier.Mr. Skase disclosed a disagreement among directors of Qintex Australia over certain fees claimed by Qintex Group Management Services Pty., a management-services concern in which Qintex Australia executives have an interest.
most of the money went to other parties for expenses such as rent and travel.a smaller portion is owed to senior executives and others for management services.
Non-executive directors of Qintex Australia, who must approve payments to the senior executives, balked at the amount..Two of the directors resigned.the payments haven't yet been approved.
that store data.the power is off.
their data disappear.they aren't fed a steady diet of electricity.
Today's most widely used data-storing chips have "volatile" memories.they need external power supplies.
that broad applications are several years away.the technology isn't fully refined.
Developers caution that broad applications are several years away because the technology isn't fully refined.Ramtron of Colorado Springs, Colo., plans to start shipping commercial quantities of simple ferroelectric chips in December.
the chips could take over a significant part of the market.production hurdles are overcome.
they are potentially cheaper to make.they require fewer manufacturing steps than conventional chips.
Military buyers have shown interest.ferroelectric chips resist atomic radiation.
Military buyers have shown interest because ferroelectric chips resist atomic radiation.while today's non-volatile chips -- such as electronically erasable programmable read-only memory chips -- can't be used in a computer's central memory because they "learn" data slowly, ferroelectric chips accept data at very high speeds.
And ferroelectric chips accept data at very high speeds.today's non-volatile chips -- such as electronically erasable programmable read-only memory chips -- can't be used in a computer's central memory.
while today's non-volatile chips -- such as electronically erasable programmable read-only memory chips -- can't be used in a computer's central memory.they "learn" data slowly.
That means huge travel bills.telephone or videotape depositions just don't match physical encounters.
The company installed a prototype system that connects Dallas with Miami over digital phone lines.it is preparing to set up shop in Chicago, New York and 10 other cities where court-reporting agencies can tie conference rooms into the network.
the formal network of court reporters should make things easier and cheaper.lawyers arranged individual tie-ups before.
Until now, most Japanese charges have been responses to suits against them.last year Hitachi Ltd. surprised Japan's electronics industry when it accused Korea's Samsung Electronics Co. of using Hitachi technology to make dynamic random-access memory chips.
But last year Hitachi Ltd. surprised Japan's electronics industry.it accused Korea's Samsung Electronics Co. of using Hitachi technology to make dynamic random-access memory chips.
when it accused Korea's Samsung Electronics Co. of using Hitachi technology to make dynamic random-access memory chips.Hitachi went on the offensive against the U.S.'s Motorola Inc. earlier this month with a suit charging that Motorola's new MC88200 chip infringes on a Hitachi patent.
Hitachi made the reverse-engineering charges in an amendment to a counterclaim filed in a federal district court in Texas.Motorola sued Hitachi for patent violation.
earnings would have increased.it hadn't been actively repurchasing its shares.
if it hadn't been actively repurchasing its shares.increasing its interest expense and reducing its interest income.
Tandy "has done a decent job" increasing sales by manufacturing computers for others and expanding sales of its Grid Systems Corp. subsidiary, which sells computers to bigger businesses.it's not enough to offset the problems at Radio Shack.
Radio Shack continues to be lackluster.he cut his fiscal 1990 per-share earnings estimate for Tandy to $4.05 from $4.20.
consumer electronics sales at its Radio Shack stores have been slow, partly because of a lack of hot, new products.Tandy has suffered from lethargic sales of its computers aimed at the home and small-office market.
that should be the quarter.the earnings acceleration is to take place.
Drexel -- the leading underwriter of high-risk junk bonds -- could no longer afford to sell any junk offerings.they might later become troubled.
to sell any junk offerings.if they might become troubled because Drexel risked losing its highly lucrative junk franchise.
Drexel -- the leading underwriter of high-risk junk bonds -- could no longer afford to sell any junk offerings if they might later become troubled.Drexel risked losing its highly lucrative junk franchise.
The dinner was a stark confirmation that 1989 is the worst year ever for the $200 billion junk market.investors and traders alike say the current turmoil could take years to resolve.
Drexel has been unable to stem the fallout from growing junk bond defaults, withdrawn new offerings, redemptions by shareholders in junk bond mutual funds and an exodus of once-devoted investors.the big investment bank still dominates the junk market.
This is the worst shakeout ever in the junk market.it could take years before it's over.
and it could take years.it's over.
For many money managers, the past four months have been humiliating.In the third quarter junk bonds -- those with less than an investment-grade rating -- showed negative returns, the only major sector of the bond market to do so.
The junk market, which mushroomed to $200 billion from less than $2 billion at the start of the decade, has been declining for months.issuers have stumbled under the weight of hefty interest payments.
At that point, the junk market went into a tailspin.buyers disappeared and investors tried to sell.
as buyers disappeared.investors tried to sell.
Nobody's been perfect in their credit judgments the past couple years.we're going to make sure our default rates are going to be in the acceptable parameters of the market.
In recent months there has been heavy selling of junk bonds by some of the market's traditional investors.new buyers haven't materialized to replace them.
Wall Street securities firms, "the primary source of liquidity for the high yield market," have been net sellers of junk bonds because of trading losses.Mutual funds have been net sellers of junk bonds.
Mutual funds have also been net sellers of junk bonds.junk's relatively poor performance and negative press coverage have produced "above-normal" redemptions by shareholders.
Mutual funds have also been net sellers of junk bonds.junk's relatively poor performance and negative press coverage have produced "above-normal" redemptions by shareholders.
Investors, trying to raise cash, have sold "large liquid issues" such as RJR Holdings Corp. and Kroger Co.; declines in these benchmark issues have contributed to the market's distress.buying has been severely reduced because savings and loans have been restricted in their junk purchases by recently passed congressional legislation.
And buying has been severely reduced.savings and loans have been restricted in their junk purchases by recently passed congressional legislation.
And buying has been severely reduced because savings and loans have been restricted in their junk purchases by recently passed congressional legislation.savings and loans were sellers of high yield holdings throughout the quarter.
In recent months there has been heavy selling of junk bonds by some of the market's traditional investors, while new buyers haven't materialized to replace them.Prudential, the nation's largest insurer and the biggest investor in junk bonds, has seen the value of its junk bond portfolio drop to $6.5 billion from $7 billion since August because of falling junk prices.
In recent months there has been heavy selling of junk bonds by some of the market's traditional investors, while new buyers haven't materialized to replace them.Prudential, the nation's largest insurer and the biggest investor in junk bonds, has seen the value of its junk bond portfolio drop to $6.5 billion from $7 billion since August because of falling junk prices.
We certainly do have a lack of liquidity here.it's something to be concerned about.
I have no reason to think things will get worse.this market has a knack for surprising us.
the market has downgraded many junk issues as if they were in trouble.the majority of junk bonds outstanding show no signs of default.
the market has downgraded many junk issues.they were in trouble.
Although the majority of junk bonds outstanding show no signs of default, the market has downgraded many junk issues as if they were in trouble.we think the risks are there for things getting a lot worse..And the risks aren't appropriate for us.
the risks are there for things getting a lot worse.the risks aren't appropriate for us.
If anything, we're going to see defaults increase.credit ratings have declined.
whose study on junk bond defaults caused a furor on Wall Street.it was disclosed last April.
The junk market is no bonanza as Drexel claimed.it also isn't a disaster as the doomsayers say.
The junk market is no bonanza as Drexel claimed.but it isn't a disaster as the doomsayers say.
Despite the junk market's problems, Drexel continues to enjoy a loyalty among junk bond investors that its Wall Street rivals haven't found.During the past three weeks Drexel has sold $1.3 billion of new junk bonds for Turner Broadcasting Co., Uniroyal Chemical, Continental Air and Duff & Phelps.
Despite the junk market's problems, Drexel continues to enjoy a loyalty among junk bond investors that its Wall Street rivals haven't found.the list of troubled Drexel bond offerings dwarfs that of any firm on Wall Street, as does its successful offerings.
Quality junk bonds will continue to trade well.the deals that never should have been brought have now become nuclear waste.
she reeled off the names of a few pals -- Prince Charles, Princess Diana, Sarah Ferguson, John Kluge, Milton Petrie.Helen Boehm sipped her luncheon cocktail.
she reeled off the names of a few pals -- Prince Charles, Princess Diana, Sarah Ferguson, John Kluge, Milton Petrie.she told her two companions that she is on the "board" of the Vatican Museum in Rome.
As it turns out, the board has a lot of important members, including Winton Blount (former postmaster general of the U.S.), Mrs. Henry Gaisman (widow of the inventor of auto-strop razor) and Vincent Murphy (an investment banker at Merrill Lynch & Co.Mrs. Boehm didn't mention any of them.
Like which are droppable.which are not.
With the fall social season well under way, name-droppers are out in force, trying to impress their betters and sometimes put down their lessers.the truth is that almost everyone, from real-estate agents to city fathers, name-drops; and a surprising number of people have an ancient uncle who claims he lived next door to the cartoonist who did the Katzenjammer Kids.
But the truth is that almost everyone, from real-estate agents to city fathers, name-drops.a surprising number of people have an ancient uncle who claims he lived next door to the cartoonist who did the Katzenjammer Kids.
and getting more so.society becomes more complex and alienating.
I was having a drink in Sardi's.all of a sudden I saw a woman's backside coming up the steps on the second floor and she was wearing sequined slacks.
when all of a sudden I saw a woman's backside coming up the steps on the second floor.she was wearing sequined slacks.
I knew it was someone important.I followed her into the ladies room.
so I followed her into the ladies room.sure enough, it was Liza.
and sure enough, it was Liza.I said, `Hello.
So I said, `Hello.she said, `Hello.
So I said, `Hello.she said, `Hello.
They can't help talking about the big important people they know.they don't really know them.
I do it innately and pathologically.while it may occasionally get me into trouble, it's also gotten me access to parties and society.
and it's also gotten me access to parties and society.it may occasionally get me into trouble.
and while it may occasionally get me into trouble.it's gotten me access to parties and society.
I guess I might have asked Beauregard to leave.he drops so many good names, we decided to let him stay.
After all, Warhol was the ultimate namedropper, dropping five a day in his diaries.Beauregard was mentioned twice -- although very briefly and in passing.
And Beauregard was mentioned twice.very briefly and in passing.
I think she knows me.I'm not sure.
She knows me.we're not really the best of friends.
who actually plan whose names they are going to drop.attending a party.
whom everybody these days apparently has heard of.no one really knows.
It's the one-upsmanship of name-dropping that counts.name-dropping has other benefits, often civic.
It has gotten a bad rep.its once heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire.
It has gotten a bad rep.former Mayor Ralph Perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch.
because its once heavily polluted Cuyahoga River caught fire, because former Mayor Ralph Perk set his hair on fire with an acetylene torch.because its proposed Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame was recently refused an urban-development grant.
It has gotten a bad rep.its proposed Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame was recently refused an urban-development grant.
that actor Paul Newman's family owned a sporting-goods store in Cleveland, that the late actress Margaret Hamilton, who played the bad witch in "The Wizard Of Oz," once ran a nursery school in Cleveland.that comedian Bob Hope's father, a stonemason, once worked on a church next to Severence Hall, Cleveland's main concert hall.
that a 3.2-acre property overlooking the San Fernando Valley is priced at $4 million.the late actor Erroll Flynn once lived there.
the property might have been priced $1 million lower.Flynn hadn't lived there.
that Flynn's house has been bulldozed.only the swimming pool remains.
Press agents and public-relations practitioners are notorious name-droppers.some even do it with malice aforethought.
that he leaves messages with Mr. Dorfman's office saying that he has an important story on Donald Trump, Meshulam Riklis or Marvin Davis.Dan Dorfman, a financial columnist with USA Today, hasn't returned his phone calls.
he has no story on any of them on these occasions.it does get him to return my calls, and it makes me feel better for the times he's given me the brushoff.
But it does get him to return my calls.it makes me feel better for the times he's given me the brushoff.
Get caught.you're dead in the water.
Get caught.you're dead in the water.
I know they've never met her.directors or producers phone me and say they know `Liz.
In New York society, Pat Buckley, the very social wife of author William Buckley, has the nicknames "Mrs..Buckles" and "Patsy.her husband sometimes calls her "Ducky.
In New York society, Pat Buckley, the very social wife of author William Buckley, has the nicknames "Mrs..Buckles" and "Patsy." And her husband sometimes calls her "Ducky.call her `Patty, ' and it's a sure giveaway you're not in her circle, because she doesn't use that name.
But call her `Patty.it's a sure giveaway you're not in her circle, because she doesn't use that name.
But call her `Patty, ' and it's a sure giveaway you're not in her circle.she doesn't use that name.
That's.they only drop "mere names.
because they only drop "mere names.how tycoons such as the late Jean Paul Getty, the oil billionnaire, were known only by one initial, their last.
you ask whether they've spoken to `G.you're at the club.
Now they know who you mean.you know who you mean.
Now they know who you mean and you know who you mean.no one else does.
Now that's name-dropping.you know what I mean.
the number of automobile choices is causing stress among consumers today.that people will simply ignore new models that lack a well-defined image.
the number of automobile choices is causing stress among consumers today.that people will simply ignore new models that lack a well-defined image.
to be as distinctive as possible.still retaining links to the parent company's quality image.
There's more noise out there.the consumer may have to work harder to cut through it.
There's more noise out there.the consumer may have to work harder to cut through it.
There's more noise out there, and the consumer may have to work harder to cut through it.the reward is that there's less need to make tradeoffs" in choosing one's wheels.
Market segmentation in cars isn't new.it's far more extensive than when Alfred P. Sloan Jr. conceived the idea 50 years ago.
The number of makes has mushroomed.the U.S. is the world's biggest and richest market for automobiles.
GM launched the Geo marque this year to sell cars made in partnership with foreign auto makers.next year GM's long-awaited Saturn cars will make their debut.
Ford Motor Co. created the Merkur nameplate in 1985 to sell its German-made touring sedans in the U.S.slow sales forced Ford to kill the brand just last week.
brand loyalty is much harder to maintain.consumers have so many choices.
It's hard to generalize.age seems to be the best predictor.
Young consumers prefer luxury cars by a 37% to 28% margin.older buyers, because of their incomes, are more likely to actually purchase a luxury car.
Such preferences persist.many Americans believe differences between imported and domestic cars are diminishing.
Only 58% of Americans now believe that foreign cars get better gas mileage than domestic models down from 68% in 1987..Some 46% give foreign cars higher quality ratings, down from 50% two years ago.only 42% say foreign cars are less comfortable than U.S. models, down from 55% in 1987.
they're very hard to break.buying habits are formed.
Once buying habits are formed, they're very hard to break," declares Thomas Mignanelli, executive vice president for Nissan's U.S. sales operations.out on Cobb Parkway, Ted Negas sees it differently.
that an owner's loyalty to a dealership or a car is virtually nonexistent.the very fickleness of baby boomers may make it possible to win them back.
Ed Voyles Olds recently established a special section in the service department for owners whose cars are less than a year old.they get quicker service.
they would buy anti-lock brakes.they carry a medium or high price tag.
they would buy anti-lock brakes.they carry a medium or high price tag.
Some 60% of the survey respondents said they would buy anti-lock brakes even if they carry a medium or high price tag..More than 50% felt the same way about air bags.dashboard computers, power seats and turbo-charged engines had little appeal.
In contrast, dashboard computers, power seats and turbo-charged engines had little appeal.even a little appeal has a lot of attraction these days.
GM's Pontiac division is offering a turbo-charged V-6 engine on its Grand Prix model.it expects to sell only about 4,000 cars equipped with that option.
Americans spent more than $190 billion on new cars and trucks last year.just 1% of that market exceeded Polaroid Co. 's sales of $1.86 billion.
would you throw away sales the size of Polaroid.it's only 1%.
it's a pricey lawn decoration.the Sago is relatively rare and grows only a couple of inches a year.
A two-foot tall Sago can retail for $1,000.taller ones often fetch $3,000 or more.
Just last week, would-be thieves damaged three Sagos at Mr. Whitelock's home in the Eagle Rock section.something frightened them off.
to plant Sagos in the back yard.they must.
The department is advising residents to plant Sagos, if they must, in the back yard and telling nurseries to be on the lookout for anyone trying to palm one off.for those Californians who want exotic gardens out front where neighbors can appreciate them, there's always Harold Smith's approach.
I put a big iron stake in the ground and tied the tree to the stake with a chain.three Sagos were stolen from his home in Garden Grove.
I put a big iron stake in the ground and tied the tree to the stake with a chain.you can't cut this chain with bolt cutters.
It's the most controversial form of program trading.it can create abrupt price swings in the stock market.
Salomon Brothers Inc. was the top program trader in September.most of the firm's activity involved portfolio trading strategies other than stock-index arbitrage.
Salomon Brothers Inc. was the top program trader in September, but most of the firm's activity involved portfolio trading strategies other than stock-index arbitrage.Salomon reported program trading volume of 75.2 million shares.
The complaint accuses Imperial and other defendants of issuing false and misleading financial data.It charges that Imperial, the holding company for Imperial Savings & Loan, experienced major losses and writedowns because of improper assessment of the risks of junk-bond investments and wholesale consumer loan packages.
that it would vigorously defend itself against the class-action suit.the company hadn't yet been served with the derivative suit.
filed in federal district court.In a separate complaint filed in federal court here.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
Eastman Kodak Co., seeking to position itself in the potentially huge high-definition television market, unveiled a converter that can transform conventional motion-picture film into high-definition video.The move helps the Rochester, N.Y., photographic giant ensure that its motion-picture film business isn't made obsolete by the upstart HDTV business.
it's being lauded by the infant HDTV industry as a way of increasing the number of high-quality shows that can be seen on the new medium.the prototype converter is costly.
that they would face a severe shortage of programs.consumers begin replacing their TV sets with HDTVs.
Japanese electronic giants, such as Sony Corp. and Hitachi Ltd., have focused almost entirely on HDTV hardware, and virtually ignored software or programs shot in high-definition.only a handful of small U.S. companies are engaged in high-definition software development.
Consumers will be able to switch on their HDTV sets and get all the viewing benefits the high-tech medium offers.they'd be watching programs that are no different in quality from what they currently view on color TVs.
Kodak won't disclose the cost or when its converter will be on the market.it's estimated the machine may be available within two years.
A similar machine already on the market, made by Rank Sintel Ltd., a unit of Rank Organisation, costs about $500,000.the potential market is tremendous.
there will be demand for some 4,000 to 5,000 HDTV converters.HDTV takes off in the U.S.
The converter is head and shoulders above anything else I've seen," says Richard J. Stumpf, vice president-engineering and development at MCA Inc. 's Universal City Studios.Mr. Niles, the program producer, contends that Kodak's move is "a sound marketing decision..They can't afford to stay out of HDTV.
They can't afford to stay out of HDTV.the stakes are high.
HDTVs break down images into more than 1,100 lines, compared with 525 for today's televisions, providing considerably sharper detail.the sets are wider, resembling the dimensions of a movie screen.
The U.S. electronics industry estimates that the HDTV market will total about $150 billion over the next two decades, with an additional $400 billion expected to go for related products.the financial rewards aren't expected soon, nor are they guaranteed.
But the financial rewards aren't expected soon.are they guaranteed.
But the financial rewards aren't expected soon, nor are they guaranteed.Kodak couldn't risk letting HDTV turn its motion-picture film business into a dinosaur.
Yet another political scandal is racking Japan.this time it's hurting opposition as well as ruling-party members.
But this time it's hurting opposition as well as ruling-party members.as it unfolds, it's revealing some of the more tangled and seamier aspects of Japanese society.
And it's revealing some of the more tangled and seamier aspects of Japanese society.it unfolds.
Already, ruling Liberal Democratic Party demands that opposition members testify under oath in parliament have stalled one budget committee session and forced the committee to plan a special two-day investigation at the end of the month.the scandal itself is so convoluted that ruling-party members are divided between those who want to pursue the matter in hope of undermining the opposition and those who favor leaving well enough alone.
The opposition can be the most hurt.everyone already figures the LDP is that kind of beast.
The opposition can be the most hurt because everyone already figures the LDP is that kind of beast.We can't tell where it will go at all because we're still in the middle of it.
But We can't tell where it will go at all.we're still in the middle of it.
The donations so far appear to be small, especially compared with the huge sums that changed hands in the Recruit Co. influence-peddling scandal that plagued the ruling party last year.the implications could be great.
Recently the industry has faced the threat of new restrictions.political donations may have been made with the intent to bribe.
Recently the industry has faced the threat of new restrictions.political donations may have been made with the intent to bribe.
and political donations may have been made with the intent to bribe.about 60% of pachinko parlor owners are Korean and donations by such foreign groups are illegal in Japan.
Also, about 60% of pachinko parlor owners are Korean, many of whom maintain close ties with North or South Korean residents' organizations.donations by such foreign groups are illegal in Japan.
and has been.it took root as cheap entertainment in the years after World War II.
At 500 yen ($3.60) for a handful of balls, pachinko is a common pastime, and has been since it took root as cheap entertainment in the years after World War II.the total of all those pinging balls has created an industry with a reported annual income of 13 trillion yen (almost $92 billion), or nearly the size of Japan's vaunted automobile industry.
But the total of all those pinging balls has created an industry with a reported annual income of 13 trillion yen (almost $92 billion), or nearly the size of Japan's vaunted automobile industry.because the pachinko industry is regularly at the top of annual lists for tax evasion, some observers estimate the real income could be as much as 20 trillion yen.
And some observers estimate the real income could be as much as 20 trillion yen.the pachinko industry is regularly at the top of annual lists for tax evasion.
it could bring the government a badly needed several trillion yen.that money were being taxed.
In 1984, an attempt was made to crack down on the industry with tougher restrictions.in 1988, a proposal to keep better track of income by selling prepaid cards for pachinko was fielded in parliament.
North Koreans oppose the plan.South Koreans, Japanese and Taiwanese accept it or are neutral.
the pachinko industry may have been offering bribes to win support in the battle against prepaid cards.it may have been laundering money back and forth between the JSP and the North Korean residents' organization, the Chosen Soren.
The Chosen Soren and the JSP immediately denied the report.at first, neither the opposition nor the LDP wanted to pursue the issue.
The Chosen Soren and the JSP immediately denied the report..And at first, neither the opposition nor the LDP wanted to pursue the issue.the press kept it alive; as with the Recruit scandal, lists began circulating with names of people who had received money.
that members of the ruling LDP had received much larger donations from pachinko organizations.So far there have been no allegations that the contributions the LDP members received amounted to bribes.
Within a matter of weeks, less-conservative magazines reported that members of the ruling LDP had received much larger donations from pachinko organizations.the two camps upped the ante.
Direct donations from either of the residents' organizations would be illegal.the groups are defined as foreign.
Direct donations from either of the residents' organizations would be illegal because the groups are defined as foreign.both groups deny making direct donations.
The issue is further complicated.although the organizations represent Korean residents, those residents were largely born and raised in Japan and many speak only Japanese.
because those residents were largely born and raised in Japan and many speak only Japanese.the organizations represent Korean residents.
Both residents' organizations admit to receiving some funding from abroad.LDP members and supporters of the prepaid card idea tend to speak in innuendo about the JSP's alleged donations, implying that North Korean money would be more suspect than South Korean because North Korea is communist and South Korea is an ally.
that North Korean money would be more suspect than South Korean.North Korea is communist and South Korea is an ally.
he got a chance to play in the starting lineup for his high school basketball team in Macon, Ga.Robert McDuffie was 14.
Unfortunately, his mother had tickets for a recital by Itzhak Perlman the same night.she was adamant about his attending.
I threw such a fit.once Perlman started playing, I didn't give a damn about basketball.
But I didn't give a damn about basketball.Perlman started playing.
But once Perlman started playing, I didn't give a damn about basketball.I went home and practiced for three hours.
At 31, Mr. McDuffie has a rich, full-bodied tone, an admirable rhythmic precision and an increasingly busy schedule.Mr. McDuffie's career has developed at a slower pace than those of some of his better known contemporaries.
who performed with major orchestras.still a student.
I thought I was over the hill at 22.I wasn't ready for a career at that time.
I didn't learn to count.I got to Juilliard.
he switched at the college level to Miss DeLay, Mr. Galamian's longtime assistant and, ultimately, his rival.studies at that conservatory's Pre-College Division with an assistant to the legendary instructor Ivan Galamian.
I had to prove myself to her.she was always encouraging.
The second incident took place.Mr. McDuffie gave an ambitious student recital and was feeling rather pleased with himself.
We listened to the Chausson `Poeme.she said, `You hear the first note, that B-flat?.That's the only note that's truly in tune.
That's the most important experience I've had with any teacher.she taught me how to listen.
Now the musicians often compliment me on my intonation.I play with orchestras.
because she taught me how to listen.It was at Juilliard that Mr. McDuffie discovered his predilection for conservative, 20th-century American composers such as David Diamond and Samuel Barber.
Mr. McDuffie was invited to play the work for the composer, who was dying of cancer.winning a school competition with a performance of the latter's "Violin Concerto.
He didn't say much.what he said was important because it's not in the score.
but what he said was important.it's not in the score.
he'd kill me.he heard me say that.
It's written `marcato' in the score.I played it that way, kind of gigue-like.
It's written `marcato' in the score.I played it that way, kind of gigue-like.
It's written `marcato' in the score, and I played it that way, kind of gigue-like.he yelled out `dolce! dolce!' {`sweet! sweet!'}.
It's written `marcato' in the score, and I played it that way, kind of gigue-like.he yelled out `dolce! dolce!' {`sweet! sweet!'}.
And he yelled out `dolce! dolce!' {`sweet! sweet.we did it over.
it makes the piece magical.a conductor is sensitive enough to bring down the orchestra {volume} at that point.
Mr. McDuffie has made some smart moves and some controversial ones.leaving Juilliard.
His guest appearance on the NBC soap opera "Another World," scandalized musical elitists.he's won kudos for his espousal of William Schuman's "Violin Concerto.
Mr. Schuman's "Violin Concerto," which sounds more like a mildly atonal rhapsody for solo violin with orchestral accompaniment, meanders until the propulsive "Agitato, fervente.there are ample rewards in its plaintive slow sections and virtuoso fireworks for soloist, brass and timpani.
I'm still humbled by the piece.I hear it played badly.
I could ever feel I've contributed to it in some way.all the hard work has been worth it.
A lot of observers think so.if they're right, the whole economy as well as the spendthrifts among us could be hurt.
and the whole economy as well as the spendthrifts among us could be hurt.they're right.
at a time when plant-and-equipment spending is slowing.deficit-racked governments can't readily take up the slack.
A sudden, forced cutback by consumers, who normally account for about two-thirds of economic activity, would damp the economy at a time when plant-and-equipment spending is slowing and deficit-racked governments can't readily take up the slack.another wave of bad loans would further batter many already-shaky lending institutions.
During the almost seven-year-old economic expansion, inflation-adjusted gross national product, disposable personal income and personal consumption expenditures have risen 30%.inflation-adjusted consumer installment credit has surged 66%.
During the almost seven-year-old economic expansion, inflation-adjusted gross national product, disposable personal income and personal consumption expenditures have risen 30%, but inflation-adjusted consumer installment credit has surged 66%.the ratio of installment debt to disposable personal income -- personal income after taxes -- has hit a high of about 18 1/2%.
During the almost seven-year-old economic expansion, inflation-adjusted gross national product, disposable personal income and personal consumption expenditures have risen 30%, but inflation-adjusted consumer installment credit has surged 66%..And the ratio of installment debt to disposable personal income -- personal income after taxes -- has hit a high of about 18 1/2%.these figures don't seem to worry Thomas A. Durkin, an economist at the Federal Reserve Board.
that "installment credit always grows rapidly in cyclical advances.growth in this cycle is very typical of earlier experiences.
which could persist for a while.history is a guide.
that "installment credit always grows rapidly in cyclical advances, and growth in this cycle is very typical of earlier experiences We are now witnessing a slowdown which, if history is a guide, could persist for a while.what about the debt burden.
that "there is some magic level" at which the ratio of installment debt to disposable income "indicates economic problems.more importantly the debt burden measured other ways is not really in uncharted waters.
The ratio of consumer installment credit to disposable income, though up a bit, hasn't climbed steeply.such debt as a percent of household assets is little changed.
The ratio of consumer installment credit to disposable income, though up a bit, hasn't climbed steeply, and such debt as a percent of household assets is little changed.the burden of consumer credit payments relative to disposable income may be "lower in this cycle than earlier.
that some "revolving credit-card credit is actually convenience credit" being used simply as a handy way of paying bills rather than a handy way of borrowing.longer maturities on automobile and other forms of installment credit boost the stock of debt faster than the flow of repayments and the accompanying payment burden.
In addition longer maturities on automobile and other forms of installment credit boost the stock of debt faster than the flow of repayments and the accompanying payment burden.if you "consider the changing distribution of credit much of the increase in debt in recent years is due to increasing credit use by higher-income families," that is, "those probably best able to handle it.
And much of the increase in debt in recent years is due to increasing credit use by higher-income families," that is, "those probably best able to handle it.you "consider the changing distribution of credit.
that "11% of homeowners had home-equity credit accounts.the proportion rises to 16% of homeowners in the $45,000-$60,000 income range and 23% of homeowners with income above $60,000.
Citing figures on home-equity loans, he notes that "11% of homeowners had home-equity credit accounts, but the proportion rises to 16% of homeowners in the $45,000-$60,000 income range and 23% of homeowners with income above $60,000.much home-equity credit is used conservatively.
that "11% of homeowners had home-equity credit accounts, but the proportion rises to 16% of homeowners in the $45,000-$60,000 income range and 23% of homeowners with income above $60,000." And much home-equity credit is used conservatively.it isn't surprising that consumer-credit delinquencies at banks remain, as the chart shows, reassuringly below some earlier highs (see accompanying illustration -- WSJ Oct. 23, 1989).
A severe recession could, of course, raise delinquency rates.so far the current levels of consumer debt don't seem to loom as a major threat.
but so far the current levels of consumer debt don't seem to loom as a major threat.the current weakness in auto buying and department-store sales and the gradual upturn in the household saving rate suggest that consumers, conservative as ever, are already clutching their purses a bit more tightly.
Consumers appear unwilling to add to their leverage to support their spending.household debt appears to be stabilizing at around 63% of GNP.
The 67-year-old maker of brassieres, panties, and lingerie enjoys one of the best-known brand images.its financial profile is closely guarded by members of the founding family.
Its current ad campaign, on which Maidenform has spent more than $15 million since fall 1987, doesn't even show its underwear products.but men like Christopher Reeve, star of the "Superman" movies, talking about their lingerie turn-ons.
The intimate apparel industry is perceived to be a growth industry.clearly {Maidenform} is a force to be reckoned with.
they are buying better quality, more upscale intimate apparel.working women are "forced to wear the uniform of the day.
the move on Sept. 25 precipitated the resignation of Alan Lesk as senior vice president of sales and merchandising.Mr. Brawer's appointment as president was long expected.
Three days later, Mr. Lesk was named president and chief executive officer of Olga Co., a competing intimate apparel division of Warnaco Inc.Warnaco owns Warners, another major intimate apparel maker.
Mr. Lesk couldn't be reached to comment.Maidenform officials say that after spending 24 years at Maidenform, Mr. Lesk, 48, made it clear he wanted the top job.
that Mr. Lesk, 48, made it clear he wanted the top job.spending 24 years at Maidenform.
this isn't the firm to work for.you want the presidency of the company.
Warnaco was taken private by Spectrum Group in 1986 for about $487 million.last year, Playtex Holdings Inc. went private for about $680 million.
And last year, Playtex Holdings Inc. went private for about $680 million.It was split into Playtex Apparel Inc., the intimate apparel division, and Playtex Family Products Corp.
Warnaco was taken private by Spectrum Group in 1986 for about $487 million..And last year, Playtex Holdings Inc. went private for about $680 million.Publicly traded VF Corp., which owns Vanity Fair, and Sara Lee Corp., which owns Bali Co., are strong forces in intimate apparel.
Buy-out offers for Maidenform aren't infrequent.they aren't taken very seriously.
I don't even have to consult" with Mrs. Coleman.he gets calls.
his wife, Ida, concentrated on sales and other financial matters.Mr. Rosenthal introduced new undergarment designs.
his wife, Ida, concentrated on sales and other financial matters.Mr. Rosenthal introduced new undergarment designs.
Maidenform products are mainly sold at department stores.the company has quietly opened a retail store of its own in Omaha, Neb., and has 24 factory outlets, with plans to add more.
Mr. Brawer taught at the University of Wisconsin.joining Maidenform in 1972.
Mr. Brawer isn't the first person to marry into the family and subsequently head Maidenform.the company has always been family-run.
China could exhaust its foreign-exchange reserves as early as next year.imports are cut drastically to help narrow the balance-of-payments deficit.
According to the report the reserves would be wiped out either in 1990 or 1991.China's trade gap continues to widen at the pace seen in the first seven months of this year.
A country is considered financially healthy.its reserves cover three months of its imports.
that "a near-term foreign-exchange payment problem can be avoided.import growth drops to below 5% per annum.
According to Chinese customs figures, import growth has slowed in recent months, dropping to 16% in July and 7.1% in August from the year-earlier periods, compared with an average growth rate of 26% in the first half.before import growth slowed, China's buying spree in the first half already had taken its toll on foreign-exchange reserves.
But China's buying spree in the first half already had taken its toll on foreign-exchange reserves.import growth slowed.
China might stave off a crisis.it acts as forcefully as it did to arrest the 1985 decline.
China might stave off a crisis if it acts as forcefully as it did to arrest the 1985 decline, when Beijing slammed the brakes on foreign-exchange spending and devalued the currency.this time, China faces a more difficult battle because of economic forces that have come into play since the Tiananmen Square killings June 4.
But this time, China faces a more difficult battle because of economic forces that have come into play since the Tiananmen Square killings June 4.China's hard-currency income is expected to suffer from the big drop in tourist arrivals since June 4.
In one, imports and exports continue to grow at the respective average rates of 25% and 5% recorded during the first seven months.the current-account deficit widens to $13.1 billion.
it might be able to stem the drain on its foreign-exchange reserves by using some loan funds to offset the current-account deficit.China were still on good terms with foreign lenders.
If China were still on good terms with foreign lenders, it might be able to stem the drain on its foreign-exchange reserves by using some loan funds to offset the current-account deficit.since June, foreign bankers led by international financial institutions have virtually suspended their new loans to China.
commercial bankers aren't expected to lend as much as before.borrowing resumes.
But since June, foreign bankers led by international financial institutions have virtually suspended their new loans to China.economists are forecasting a slowdown in foreign direct investments as businessmen become increasingly wary of China's deteriorating political and economic environment.
In addition, economists are forecasting a slowdown in foreign direct investments.businessmen become increasingly wary of China's deteriorating political and economic environment.
The Western government report's first scenario assumes a 30% reduction in foreign borrowing and a 5% contraction in foreign direct investment..In the second, foreign borrowing is projected to grow 10% and investment to drop 10%.in either case, the report says, China's balance of payments would rapidly dry up foreign reserves, which are used to finance the imbalance.
In the first scenario, the reserves would be exhausted next year.in the second they would be wiped out in 1991.
Roche Holding AG, parent of the Swiss chemical and pharmaceutical group, said its group sales rose 22% in the first nine months of the year to 7.32 billion francs ($4.51 billion).Roche said it expects a "considerable rise" in 1989 group profit from the 641.5 million-franc ($396 million) net in 1988.
Ralph Brown was 31,000 feet over Minnesota.both jets on his Falcon 20 flamed out.
At 13,000 feet, the engines restarted.knowing that mechanics would probably ground him for repairs, Mr. Brown skipped his stop in nearby Chicago and set course to get his load -- a few hundred parcels -- to the Memphis package-sorting hub on time.
Had he been a little less gung-ho, "I'd have gotten the thing on the ground and headed for the nearest bar.he flies for Federal Express Corp., perhaps the closest thing in corporate America to the Green Berets.
The election has pitted new hires against devoted veterans such as Mr. Brown.It has rattled Federal's strongly anti-union management.
A union, sooner or later, has to have an adversary.it has to have a victory.
the charismatic Vietnam vet has fostered an ethos of combat.founding the company.
To reinforce employees' dedication, Mr. Smith pays well.He lets workers vent steam through an elaborate grievance procedure and, as a perk, fly free in empty cockpit seats.
To reinforce employees' dedication, Mr. Smith pays well..He also lets workers vent steam through an elaborate grievance procedure and, as a perk, fly free in empty cockpit seats..He gives pep talks in periodic "family briefings" beamed internationally on "FXTV," the company's own television network.with many of his 70,000 workers, Mr. Smith's damn-the-torpedoes attitude has caught on.
The company deliberately understaffs, stretching employees' schedules to the limit.though couriers work as many as 60 hours a week during the autumn rush, they leave early during slack times while still being assured of a minimum paycheck.
But they leave early during slack times.couriers work as many as 60 hours a week during the autumn rush.
But they leave early during slack times.still being assured of a minimum paycheck.
Such attitudes have given Federal flexibility, not only to rapidly implement new technology but to keep its work force extraordinarily lean.The operational freedom has given Federal a leg up on archrival United Parcel Service Inc., the nation's largest employer of United Brotherhood of Teamsters members.
UPS won't discuss its labor practices.according to Mr. Cleveland, a former UPS employee, and others, union work rules prohibit UPS drivers from doing more than carrying packages between customers and their vans.
packages often get buried in the load and are delivered late.UPS drivers aren't permitted to load their own vehicles at the depot.
it also has brought problems.the Tiger acquisition has brought Federal a long way toward becoming the global player it wants to be.
Although the Tiger acquisition has brought Federal a long way toward becoming the global player it wants to be.it has brought problems.
On routes to South America, the company had no backup jets to ensure delivery.planes were grounded.
In Europe, business suffered.Federal bought several local companies, only to have the managers quit.
These and other problems squeezed Federal's profit margins last year to 8%, down from more than 13% annually in the first half of the decade..Earnings have plummeted, too, in each of the past three quarters.Federal's stock price has held up well.
Federal's shares have rallied as high as $57.87 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.trading as low as $42.25 a share in May.
In the early 1970s, Mr. Smith modeled his fledgling company on Tiger's innovation of hub-and-spoke and containerized-cargo operations.from early on, Tiger's workers unionized, while Federal's never have.
But from early on, Tiger's workers unionized.Federal's never have.
Mr. Smith doesn't countenance what he considers insubordination.encouraging dialogue between managers and workers.
he called a meeting in a company hangar and dressed them down for challenging his authority.a large group of pilots once signed petitions opposing work-rule and compensation changes.
he called a meeting in a company hangar and dressed them down for challenging his authority.He made most of the changes.
When a large group of pilots once signed petitions opposing work-rule and compensation changes, he called a meeting in a company hangar and dressed them down for challenging his authority..He then made most of the changes.That sort of approach hasn't worked since the addition of Tiger.
Its 6,500 workers, who had battled Tiger's management for years over givebacks, were union members until the day of the merger.Soon after the merger Federal's management asked Tiger's pilots to sign an agreement stating that they could be fired any time, without cause or notice.
the company retracted it.the pilots refused.
Mr. Smith is trying hard to allay the anger.even some pro-union pilots say his charisma and popularity among the many former military fliers could be tough to beat.
Regulators, as well, might have quashed the deal.Tiger's pilots hadn't been protected.
Regulators, as well, might have quashed the deal if Tiger's pilots hadn't been protected.our contract with our pilots says that we will manage our fleet operations with their advice.
The seniority-list controversy, along with the job-classification dispute, has been turned over to the mediator.the company is operating with two separate pilot groups and seniority lists, and that is costing Federal "a big number.
The seniority-list controversy, along with the job-classification dispute, has been turned over to the mediator.the company is operating with two separate pilot groups and seniority lists, and that is costing Federal "a big number.
Meanwhile, the company is operating with two separate pilot groups and seniority lists.that is costing Federal "a big number," says James Barksdale, executive vice president and chief operating officer.
Meanwhile, the company is operating with two separate pilot groups and seniority lists.that is costing Federal "a big number," says James Barksdale, executive vice president and chief operating officer.
and that is costing Federal "a big number.The issue has cost Federal management a lot of good will among its old pilots.
They were willing to mistreat us.we hadn't shown any moxie, any resistance.
A large majority of the 961 former Tiger fliers support the union, according to a union study.though most of the 1,087 Federal pilots are believed opposed, it is unclear just how much their loyalty to Mr. Smith has been eroded.
But it is unclear just how much their loyalty to Mr. Smith has been eroded.most of the 1,087 Federal pilots are believed opposed.
they have had to endure anti-union harangues by senior pilots.flying across the country.
The fight has turned ugly and, among pilots at least, has shattered the esprit de corps that Mr. Smith worked so hard to build.for now, at least, the competition isn't the only enemy.
which retrieve tanks and other heavy-tracked vehicles.they break down or are damaged.
Mr. Hastings's case was particularly nettlesome.it marked the first time a federal official was impeached and removed from office on charges of which a jury had acquitted him.
lawmakers handling the prosecution in Congress had argued that the purpose of impeachment isn't to punish an individual.Mr. Hastings had been acquitted by a jury.
that the purpose of impeachment isn't to punish an individual.that impeachment aims to protect public institutions from people who have abused their positions of trust, irrespective of the outcome of prior criminal or civil cases.
Mr. Hastings faced the senators and sat impassively during the first two roll-call votes.quickly left the chamber.
most civil rights groups kept their distance from his case.he packed the Senate gallery with his supporters during some of the impeachment trial.
FBI Agent Nick Mancuso had solved a murder mystery, unraveled a Washington political scandal, and racked up some pretty good ratings numbers in the miniseries "Favorite Son.last we left him.
When last we left him, FBI Agent Nick Mancuso had solved a murder mystery, unraveled a Washington political scandal, and racked up some pretty good ratings numbers in the miniseries "Favorite Son.What for the crusty FBI agent with the heart of gold.
There are plenty of worse inspirations for shows.most of them had already made the fall lineup: a nun raising some lovable orphans..A den mother raising some lovable teen models..A bunch of tans and bathing suits posing as lovable lifeguards.
Mancuso is called in to investigate.his secretary is found floating dead in the pol's pool.
it's redeemed in part by some tricky plot twists.all of this seems a little stale.
it's redeemed in part by some tricky plot twists.all of this seems a little stale.
If all of this seems a little stale, it's redeemed in part by some tricky plot twists: The usual suspects are found to be guilty, then not guilty, then guilty -- but of a different crime.In last week's rape case the girl turns out to have been a victim of incest, and the biggest villains are the politicians who exploit the case.
In last week's rape case, for example the girl turns out to have been a victim of incest.the biggest villains are the politicians who exploit the case.
it's redeemed in part by some tricky plot twists.Most of all the show is redeemed by the character of Mancuso.
earned.he was assigned to the civil rights movement back in the 1960s.
Three were chauffeurs for J. Edgar Hoover.two cleaned his house.
He describes a reporter as "Miss First Amendment." He describes a drowned corpse as "Esther Williams.when he's told "Try a little tenderness," he shoots back "I'm going home to try a little linguine.
And he shoots back "I'm going home to try a little linguine.he's told "Try a little tenderness.
At the core of Mr. Loggia's Mancuso is his world-weary truculence.for all his cynicism, he's at heart a closet idealist, a softy with a secret crush on truth, justice and the American Way.
it also has a major flaw.Mancuso FBI" has an intriguing central character.
If "Mancuso FBI" has an intriguing central character.it has a major flaw: It's wildly overwritten.
To start, there's always a crisis.someone always worries, "What if the press gets a hold of this.
One more word.you are out on a park bench, mister.
One more word.you are out on a park bench, mister.
To start, there's always a crisis -- and someone always worries, "What if the press gets a hold of this?" At least once an episode we see protestors marching around screaming slogans..At least once Mancuso's boss yells "In here -- now," and proceeds to dress his investigator down: "You are a dinosaur . . . a hangover in a $10 suit . . . One more word and you are out on a park bench, mister.of course, the boss gives in, but he's still yelling: "I find myself explaining anything to Teddy Kennedy, you'll be chasing stolen cars in Anchorage.
Finally, of course, the boss gives in.he's still yelling: "I find myself explaining anything to Teddy Kennedy, you'll be chasing stolen cars in Anchorage.
At least once Mancuso's boss yells "In here -- now," and proceeds to dress his investigator down: "You are a dinosaur . . . a hangover in a $10 suit . . . One more word and you are out on a park bench, mister." Finally, of course, the boss gives in, but he's still yelling: "I find myself explaining anything to Teddy Kennedy, you'll be chasing stolen cars in Anchorage.throughout "Mancuso FBI," we don't get words or lines -- we get speeches.
Witnesses shout, scream, pontificate: ". . . a dream that the planet could be saved from itself and from the sadistic dumb creatures who try to tear down every decent man who raises his voice.Mancuso himself is investigating at the top of his lungs: "How the hell can you live with yourself?" he erupts at a politician. "You twist people's trust..You built your career on prejudice and hate..The scars will be here years after the polls close.
The scars will be here.the polls close.
Where the hell are they gonna live.people like you turn the world into a big toxic waste dump.
You're the real criminal here.what you did wasn't just a murder -- it was a crime against humanity.
In fact, throughout "Mancuso FBI," we don't get words or lines -- we get speeches.at least once a show, someone delivers the line "Get off that soapbox.
They have a series with a good character, some interesting, even occasionally surprising plot lines.they're ruining it.
Why does Mancuso trash her apartment.a key witness disappears.
Asked to say a few words, he pulls out his crumpled piece of paper and tries to talk.he's too choked up to get the words out.
He bangs on the piece of paper in frustration.turns and walks away.
It was a profoundly moving moment for series television.Robert Loggia's acting resonated in the silence.
they might just hear it.the show's creators could just let themselves be quiet for a little.
I've no time left to heed them.I peruse enough.
Texaco Inc. has purchased an oil-producing company in Texas for $476.5 million, its first major acquisition since its legal brawl with Pennzoil Co. began more than four years ago.Texaco has been attempting to sell oil properties.
Texaco acquired Tana.it completed those sales.
Texaco acquired Tana before it completed those sales.Tana's properties are high quality and near other fields Texaco already owns.
Texaco's situation had become particularly complex.much of its effort had for years been focused on its brawl with Pennzoil and then on New York investor Carl C. Icahn's attempt to take over the company.
to give up some of its independence to a white knight.necessary to repel a raider.
Groupe AG's chairman said the Belgian insurer is prepared to give up some of its independence to a white knight if necessary to repel a raider.Amid heavy buying of shares in Belgium's largest insurer, Maurice Lippens warned in an interview that a white knight, in buying out a raider, could leave speculators with big losses on their AG stock.
which already owns 18% of AG.which itself is controlled by Cie.
The most likely white knight would be Societe Generale de Belgique S.A., which already owns 18% of AG and which itself is controlled by Cie..Financiere de Suez, the acquisitive French financial conglomerate.a rescue also could involve Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Co., which owns 5% of AG.
The most likely white knight would be Societe Generale de Belgique S.A.a rescue could involve Asahi Mutual Life Insurance Co.
the volume of shares changing hands has grown significantly since mid-September.that a raider would have been able to amass no more than 4% of the shares in recent months.
A "syndicate" of shareholders holds just under 50% of AG.members have agreed to give one another the right of first refusal should they sell any AG shares.
Is the National Security Council staff big enough.does it have enough clout, to do its job of coordinating foreign policy.
He was all too aware of how a large, inadequately supervised NSC staff had spun out of control and nearly wrecked President Reagan's second term.Gen. Scowcroft has pruned the NSC staff and tried to ensure that it sticks to its assigned tasks -- namely, gathering the views of the State Department, Pentagon and intelligence community; serving as an honest broker in distilling that information for the president and then making sure presidential decisions are carried out.
serving as an honest broker in distilling that information for the president.and making sure presidential decisions are carried out.
The Tower Commission specifically said that the NSC staff should be "small.the Panama episode has raised questions about whether the NSC staff is sufficiently big, diverse and powerful to coordinate U.S. policy on tough issues.
The National Security Council itself was established in 1947.policy makers sensed a need, in an increasingly complex world, for a formal system within the White House to make sure that communications flowed smoothly between the president and the State Department, Pentagon and intelligence agencies.
By law, the council includes the president, vice president and secretaries of state and defense.In practice, the director of central intelligence and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff serve as unofficial members.
By law, the council includes the president, vice president and secretaries of state and defense..In practice, the director of central intelligence and chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff also serve as unofficial members.the size, shape and role of the NSC staff have been left for each president and his national security adviser to decide.
that the size of the staff wasn't a problem during the Panama crisis.one clear problem during the coup attempt was that the NSC staffer most experienced in Latin America, Everett Briggs, was gone.
Gen. Scowcroft is particularly well-versed in arms control.Mr. Gates has spent years studying Soviet politics and society.
Both Gen. Scowcroft and his deputy, Robert Gates, are experts in U.S.-Soviet affairs.neither has an extensive background in Latin America, the Middle East or Asia.
But neither has an extensive background in Latin America, the Middle East or Asia.In those areas, the role of NSC staffers under them have become more important.
that one of the biggest dangers he faces is that NSC staffers working in relative anonymity will take over policy-making and operational tasks that are best left to bigger and more experienced State Department and Pentagon bureaus.just as every previous NSC adviser has, Gen. Scowcroft now will have to mull at what point the NSC staff becomes too lean and too restrained.
Mr. Tomlin, among other things, illegally provided Mr. Lavelle with inside information and documents intended to give Sperry an unfair advantage in the competition.Sperry was eliminated from the competition without receiving the work.
Court documents filed by prosecutors indicate Mr. Tomlin tried to steer to Sperry a multimillion dollar contract to computerize maintenance of certain Navy electronics equiment.Documents filed by prosecutors indicate that Mr. Lavelle and his fellow conspirators requested and obtained "approval of the scheme" from more-senior Sperry officials.
that Mr. Lavelle and his fellow conspirators requested and obtained "approval of the scheme" from more-senior Sperry officials.the payment which {Mr.} Tomlin requested was so large.
He talked about it in every speech he made.he roamed the country promoting his books.
After all we've got like 15 million bureaucrats.in addition to the $5,000, he has promised the winner a "My Favorite Bureaucrat" plaque and offered each of two runners-up $500.
Mr. Lesko figured he would be flooded with entries by now.So far Mr. Lesko has received only one entry.
who is making the rules.he goes.
Mr. Lesko, who is making the rules as he goes, has determined that bureaucrats are eligible for nomination by other bureaucrats.he would prefer to get nominations from rank-and-file folks.
He admits that he hasn't had much luck generating free publicity for his contest.Mr. Lesko's staff is beginning to wonder whether there isn't some larger phenomenon foiling the contest.
I'd get 5,000 entries.he sponsored a contest on how a bureaucrat mishandled something.
Ford Motor Co. and Saab-Scania AB of Sweden broke off talks about a possible alliance.Ford officials concluded that the cost to modernize Saab's car operations would outweigh the likely return.
With the collapse of the talks Friday, European analysts expect Ford to intensify its pursuit of British luxury car maker Jaguar PLC.Saab is left to continue its search for an ally to shore up its sagging car business.
With the collapse of the talks Friday, European analysts expect Ford to intensify its pursuit of British luxury car maker Jaguar PLC.Saab is left to continue its search for an ally to shore up its sagging car business.
that the No. 2 U.S. auto maker lost interest.it became clear that the Swedish auto maker's automotive operations had little to offer in the way of image or technology.
Ford originally had seen a Saab alliance as a way to expand its presence in the European and U.S. luxury car markets.Ford and Saab had discussed a possible link between their heavy truck operations.
In addition, Ford and Saab had discussed a possible link between their heavy truck operations.the talks on a heavy truck alliance apparently didn't go far.
Some European analysts speculated that officials of Saab's highly profitable Scania truck operation balked at surrendering any of their autonomy.Ford officials became convinced they couldn't expect to recover the investment it would require to make Saab's cars competitive in the increasingly crowded luxury market.
that its car division had a 1.2 billion kronor ($186.1 million) loss during the first eight months of this year, slightly worse than Saab-Scania had forecast in its first-half report last month.Saab-Scania's pretax profit during the first eight months of the year plunged 48.9% to 1 billion Swedish kronor ($155.1 million) from 1.96 billion kronor ($303.9 million) a year earlier.
his company has had talks with Fiat about a broader alliance.the talks yielded "nothing so advanced that we needed to make a public announcement about it.
The failure of the Saab talks "makes it even more crucial for {Ford} to be victorious" in the Jaguar contest.Ford faces an uphill fight for Jaguar.
they expect to have a friendly alliance with GM wrapped up by the end of the month.GM is hosting a delegation of members of the British Parliament who are touring the auto maker's headquarter operations in Detroit.
they expect to have a friendly alliance with GM wrapped up by the end of the month.GM is hosting a delegation of members of the British Parliament who are touring the auto maker's headquarter operations in Detroit.
Ford faces an uphill fight for Jaguar, however.Ford clearly views Jaguar as a prize worth fighting for, since the company's gilded brand image would give Ford a badly needed leg up in the high end of the luxury markets in both Europe and the U.S.
But Ford clearly views Jaguar as a prize worth fighting for.the company's gilded brand image would give Ford a badly needed leg up in the high end of the luxury markets in both Europe and the U.S.
Last week, Ford encountered a setback in its effort to broaden its U.S. luxury offerings.it was forced to abandon a four-year-old effort to market its German-built Scorpio sedan in the U.S. as a luxury import under the Merkur brand name.
But Ford clearly views Jaguar as a prize worth fighting for, since the company's gilded brand image would give Ford a badly needed leg up in the high end of the luxury markets in both Europe and the U.S.despite the GM-Jaguar romance Ford by last Friday had boosted its Jaguar holding to about 11% of the luxury auto maker's shares outstanding from 10.4% early last week.
About 5.4 million Jaguar shares changed hands in active trading on London's stock exchange Friday.Jaguar shares moved up 19 pence to 696 pence ($11).
Up in his stadium box, their new and controversial owner, Jerral "Jerry" Jones, watches anxiously.the team bounds up to the scrimmage line.
One team pays so much.the other pays more.
the 47-year-old Mr. Jones set about his own round of team cuts.buying 66% of the team from H.R. "Bum" Bright for $145 million, and mindful of the Cowboys' ragged bottom line.
the Cowboys will move to a more practical -- read affordable -- grass practice field near Texas Stadium.he sells it.
With a new day dawning on the sport, Mr. Jones doesn't see a place for this sort of luxury.as for Tom Landry, well, in Mr. Jones's mind, he had played out his winning years.
the Cowboys needed a change.posting losing seasons in each of the last three years.
the Cowboys needed a change.posting losing seasons in each of the last three years.
An Arkansas native, he started at guard on the undefeated 1964 University of Arkansas team that won a national championship..After college, he worked at his father's insurance company in Little Rock, and in 1966 led an aborted attempt to buy the San Diego Chargers..Years later, with cash from the sale of the insurance company, he founded Arkoma Production Corp., an oil and gas exploration company based in Little Rock.it wasn't surprising that Mr. Jones returned to his Arkansas roots when he went looking for a replacement for Mr. Landry.
that Mr. Jones returned to his Arkansas roots.he went looking for a replacement for Mr. Landry.
Seven games (and, after a loss to the Kansas City Chiefs yesterday, seven losses) into the season, the "new" Cowboys aren't doing any better than the old.the last time they played this badly was in 1960, their opening season.
To try to draw more fans, he has dropped end-zone ticket prices from $25 to $19.the general trend, given rising costs in the league, has been to raise prices.
But the general trend, given rising costs in the league, has been to raise prices.Mr. Jones is expected to eventually follow suit.
we'd be in the red.we didn't increase prices.
To try to draw more fans, he has dropped end-zone ticket prices from $25 to $19.Mr. Jones has beefed up his marketing staff to sell the 118 luxury suites topping Texas Stadium.
only six of the suites had been sold.he bought the team.
Last year, the Cowboys' share of that pie came to $17.6 million.The team earns between $2 million and $4 million for local radio and television broadcast rights.
Mr. Jones is currently trying to jack up the price for those local rights.He is trying to get more stations in Mexico, where the Cowboys have a following, to pick up the games.
Mr. Jones has agreed to pay rookie quarterback Steve Walsh $4.1 million over the next four years.signing Mr. Aikman to a sizable contract.
Details of the plan, which would go into effect in 1993, are sketchy.each player would apparently be paid a base salary keyed to his position and ability.
To tackle the problem, NFL owners have proposed setting a rookie wage scale to try to rein in salaries.The NFL Players Association contends that athletes are paid a wage commensurate with their ability to draw fans, and that some owners are in financial trouble because of poor business management, not players' salaries.
To tackle the problem, NFL owners have proposed setting a rookie wage scale to try to rein in salaries.The NFL Players Association contends that athletes are paid a wage commensurate with their ability to draw fans, and that some owners are in financial trouble because of poor business management, not players' salaries.
that athletes are paid a wage commensurate with their ability to draw fans.that some owners are in financial trouble because of poor business management, not players' salaries.
are either too small or too old.In Chicago size is the issue.
We're in a metro area with millions of Bear fans.only a small number can be accommodated.
We're in a metro area with millions of Bear fans.only a small number can be accommodated.
It's got to be changed.the lease expires in 1999.
Many have launched promotions to attract new fans and are renegotiating dated stadium contracts.This year, the NFL imposed an 80-player limit on teams going into training camp, down from 120, in a move meant to trim payroll costs.
This year, the NFL also imposed an 80-player limit on teams going into training camp, down from 120, in a move meant to trim payroll costs.the league is trying to get more for its three-year national network contract, which expires after this season.
Owners say they expect the league to demand a 50% increase, despite the fact that televised football games have had lackluster ratings.An NFL spokesman says the league will probably expand its offerings to cable TV companies like ESPN.
The new breed of team owner, Mr. Jones included, has been fighting the NFL bureaucracy for a greater say in league affairs.the battle has produced a form of organizational gridlock.
The new breed of team owner, Mr. Jones included, has been fighting the NFL bureaucracy for a greater say in league affairs.the battle has produced a form of organizational gridlock.
For his part, Jerry Jones says he's in the business for the long haul.his work style seems to support that.
I made it on a lifetime basis.I made this investment.
I don't accept they can't be in the future.the Cowboys may not be the best investment now.
While the Cowboys may not be the best investment now, I don't accept they can't be in the future.to a large extent, Mr. Jones may already be getting what he wants out of the team.
Besides, to a large extent, Mr. Jones may already be getting what he wants out of the team.it keeps losing.
that even as "propaganda" the film fails.it presents only one view.
Mr. Goldberg contends that even as "propaganda" the film fails because it presents only one view.his complaint that "Days of Rage" doesn't contain balanced comments from Israelis about how badly the Palestinians are behaving is irrelevant.
Mr. Cheney would need only permission from the White House Office of Management and Budget to move the money, according to Senate budget analysts.the request is approved by both the House and Senate.
to try to restore the funds.a pending deficit-cutting measure has been signed into law.
Rochester Telephone said the acquisition was made in an exchange of its common shares for all the shares of Urban Telephone.a price wasn't disclosed.
that would permit the Securities and Exchange Commission to monitor the financial condition of securities firms' holding companies.which would require investors to disclose large trades and give the SEC additional authority during market emergencies.
Richard Breeden, the new chairman of the SEC, hasn't taken a formal position on the bill.that he believes the agency should have explicit authority to monitor debt levels at holding companies and affiliates of broker-dealers.
the recent woes of the junk-bond market have renewed concerns among regulators about the risks associated with Wall Street firms issuing bridge loans.such loans are often refinanced through the sale of high-risk, high-yield junk bonds.
Since such loans are often refinanced through the sale of high-risk, high-yield junk bonds, the recent woes of the junk-bond market have renewed concerns among regulators about the risks associated with Wall Street firms issuing bridge loans.some Wall Street executives argue that such fears are unwarranted.
that the fact that no retail brokerage firm failed during the 1987 market crash demonstrates that current rules are adequate.it is concerned that once the SEC has the power to monitor holding companies, it will try to regulate their activities.
that it will try to regulate their activities.the SEC has the power to monitor holding companies.
The proposal can be dangerously misleading.well-intended.
The proposal, while well-intended can be dangerously misleading.the likely consequence would be to weaken, rather than strengthen the control the SEC has exercised for 50 years over the financial adequacy and viability of broker-dealers.
that would placate the industry.addressing the SEC's concerns.
that would placate the industry.addressing the SEC's concerns.
that the securities-industry trade group opposes the bill as it is written.that it is "hopeful a compromise can be reached to achieve the SEC's goals.
In any matters between us and the Cubans there can be no simplicity.I've become familiar not only with Cuban art and artists, but also with Cuban bureaucrats and their counterparts in our own government.
all of whom share a deep belief in the original principles of the Cuban Revolution, spelled out in terms such as equality among all members of the society, reverence for education and creative expression, universal rights to health and livelihood, housing, etc.the generation of painters growing into maturity right now works with such profoundly held humanist assumptions and such passionate commitment to moral and ethical principles that it makes Che Guevara's famous linkages of art, idealism and revolution seem modest.
The Ochoa trial in July, with its revelations of deeply rooted and widespread corruption, and the summary trial and execution, was extremely disturbing to everyone who has ever considered himself a friend of Cuba.they still provide no excuse for wholesale departures from truth.
unacceptable those occurrences may have been.However they still provide no excuse for wholesale departures from truth.
unacceptable though those occurrences may have been.However they provide no excuse for wholesale departures from truth.
They are not interchangeable.they are motivated to act based on their own circumstances.
It is naivete to equate a government's policies with the will of the people.it is even worse folly to merge the clearly divergent agendas of Fidel and the military and the state bureaucracy.
Mr. Asman should make distinctions among Fidel, the army and the Cuban people.Mr. Asman is annoyed that Mr. Castro has resisted collaboration with U.S. officials.
Mr. Asman is also annoyed that Mr. Castro has resisted collaboration with U.S. officials.by his own account that collaboration has been devised essentially as a mechanism for acts directly hostile to the Cuban regime, such as facilitating defections.
Zacks Investment Research didn't adjust one analyst's estimate for a stock split.which was artificially high.
Friday's selling followed a weeklong effort to unload the bonds by a broad spectrum of institutional and individual investors.that represents a small percentage of the city's public debt outstanding.
many expected a much smaller amount of bonds to be sold.many investors were aware that a bond offering was being scheduled.
that the city's economy is weakening.the October 1987 stock market crash continues to make itself felt.
that the city's economy is weakening.the October 1987 stock market crash continues to make itself felt.
that the city's economy is weakening, as the October 1987 stock market crash continues to make itself felt.tax revenues are falling while the city's spending needs are expanding.
that the city's economy is weakening, as the October 1987 stock market crash continues to make itself felt.tax revenues are falling while the city's spending needs are expanding.
Meanwhile, tax revenues are falling.the city's spending needs are expanding.
Meanwhile, tax revenues are falling.the city's spending needs are expanding.
At present, analysts project a budget gap on the order of $500 million to $600 million for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1990.the city's own budget analysts project a narrower deficit.
that investors' concerns about the city's financial health.There are questions about whether a new and inexperienced mayor can manage the city through what could become a financial crisis.
The leading contender for the mayoral office, Democrat David Dinkins, has been criticized recently for the way he handled his personal financial affairs.the controversy has led to uncertainty about the outcome of the election.
The market can adjust to good news or bad news.uncertainty drives people wild.
Last week, yields on long-term New York City general obligation bonds jumped half a percentage point.New York City's 6% bonds due 2018 were quoted late Friday at a price to yield 7.80%, compared with 7.60% Thursday.
the Bond Buyer 20-bond general obligation index, the mostly widely followed gauge of the tax-exempt market, held steady at 7.19% in the week ended Oct. 19.the yield on New York general obligation bonds rose.
when its Los Angeles-based affiliate, Qintex Entertainment Inc., filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.Qintex Entertainment said David Evans, its president and chief executive, and Roger Kimmel, a director, both resigned.
it filed for Chapter 11 protection.Qintex Australia failed to provide it with $5.9 million owed to MCA Inc. in connection with the distribution of "The New Leave It to Beaver Show.
Qintex Entertainment is 43% owned by Qintex Australia.it relies on the Australian company for funding its working capital requirements.
The $5.9 million payment was due Oct. 1.the deadline for default was Oct. 19.
it could have been required to repay $92 million in debt under its loan agreements.Qintex had defaulted.
both Qintex Entertainment and Qintex Australia had attempted to secure a loan that would allow the company to make the $5.9 million payment.the request was turned down by an unidentified lender on Oct. 14.
At that point Qintex Australia stated it would "endeavor to arrange" the financing.a Qintex Australia spokesman said his firm had never "promised or guaranteed" to make the payment.
However a Qintex Australia spokesman said his firm had never "promised or guaranteed" to make the payment.In a prepared statement from Australia, the company said that, following the breakdown of the MGM talks, it "had been re-evaluating its position as a significant shareholder and a substantial creditor of Qintex Entertainment" and had "resolved to minimize the degree of further loans to Qintex Entertainment in excess of that previously made.
Qintex Australia was "going to pay more than $1 billion for MGM/UA.then they couldn't come up with the far smaller sum of $5.9 million.
Qintex Australia was "going to pay more than $1 billion for MGM/UA.and they couldn't come up with the far smaller sum of $5.9 million.
Mr. Evans, the former president, resigned for "personal reasons.that Mr. Kimmel, an attorney, resigned because his participation in evaluating the company's role in buying MGM/UA was no longer necessary.
and that Mr. Kimmel, an attorney, resigned.his participation in evaluating the company's role in buying MGM/UA was no longer necessary.
that MGM/UA recently contacted Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. to see if the company was still interested.we aren't currently doing anything.
The ministry inquired about that deal.the large presence of Japanese banks in the deal was "being strongly criticized in the U.S. Congress" and it was "necessary for us to grasp the situation.
because the large presence of Japanese banks in the deal was "being strongly criticized in the U.S. Congress.it was "necessary for us to grasp the situation.
the inquiry wasn't made in a way that the banks could have interpreted as either encouraging or discouraging participation.that none of the Japanese banks changed their posture on the deal as a result of the inquiry.
Mr. Utsumi said the most the ministry had ever done was ask Japanese banks about "the status of their participation" in one previous U.S. leveraged buy-out.Mr. Utsumi said some Japanese banks were willing to participate in the UAL financing up to the very end.
A Sanwa Bank spokesman denied that the finance ministry played any part in the bank's decision.Mr. Utsumi may have a hard time convincing market analysts who have rightly or wrongly believed that the ministry played a role in orchestrating recent moves by Japanese banks.
they have a hard time believing that commercial considerations were the only reason.some of the Japanese banks involved in the first proposed bid for UAL bowed out because they found the terms unattractive.
Although some of the Japanese banks involved in the first proposed bid for UAL bowed out.they found the terms unattractive.
Japanese banks are under "political pressure" as well.that Japanese banks have a reputation for doing deals that aren't extremely profitable if they offer the chance to build market share, cement an important business relationship or curry favor with powerful bureaucrats.
for doing deals that aren't extremely profitable.they offer the chance to build market share, cement an important business relationship or curry favor with powerful bureaucrats.
Japanese banks aren't likely to walk away from the game.recent events may cool some of the leveraged buy-out fever.
that he doesn't have the cash to diversify as heavily into food and drink as the U.S. concern has done.Seita's profits are limited by government-controlled cigarette prices.
that he doesn't have the cash to diversify as heavily into food and drink as the U.S. concern has done.Last year Seita's net profit soared 150% to 461.6 million French francs ($73.5 million) on sales of FFr27.68 billion-a 1.7% profit margin.
to diversify as heavily into food and drink as the U.S. concern has done.he is looking for ways to exploit France's network of 39,000 tobacco agents, most of them cafes.
its close alliance with them offers distribution possibilities.Seita doesn't own the French tabacs.
the card would sit in the car's window, showing traffic wardens how much time the motorist could remain.activated.
he could turn the card off.the motorist returned to his car.
and save it for later.it showed time remaining.
One proposal is to introduce a new payment system for parking in Paris.Seita is considering further diversification.
It wanted to buy RJR Nabisco Inc. 's French cracker subsidiary, Belin, in hopes of selling its products in tobacco stores, but lost the bidding to food group BSN SA..It currently is considering bidding for Swedish Match Co.it retains an interest in acquiring candies and other articles that might be sold in tobacco shops.
And Seita is considering further diversification.It is trying to shore up its tobacco business.
it is being hurt by rising imports and from waning cigarette demand.Seita retains a manufacturing monopoly in France.
it is being hurt by rising imports and from waning cigarette demand.Seita has introduced blonde cigarettes under the Gauloises label, and intends to relaunch the unsuccessful Gitanes Blondes in new packaging, similar to the slide-packs used by brown-tobacco Gitanes.
the justices almost certainly didn't have drunk driving, trespassing and false imprisonment on their minds.the Supreme Court upheld Missouri's abortion restrictions last July.
When the Supreme Court upheld Missouri's abortion restrictions last July, the justices almost certainly didn't have drunk driving, trespassing and false imprisonment on their minds.the 5-4 ruling may have had as much immediate impact on those activities -- especially trespassing -- as on abortion rights.
that weren't part of the actual cases decided.that never were contemplated by the justices.
In the Missouri case, unforeseen consequences may have arisen.the high court reinstated the preamble of the state's 1986 abortion law.
that human life begins at conception.that unborn children have rights protected by the Constitution.
Last year, a federal appeals court in St. Louis said the preamble was unconstitutional, citing an earlier Supreme Court ruling that states can't justify stricter abortion curbs by changing the definition of when life begins.the Supreme Court concluded that it was premature to rule on the constitutionality of the preamble because the definition of human life hadn't yet been used to restrict abortion services.
that it was premature to rule on the constitutionality of the preamble.the definition of human life hadn't yet been used to restrict abortion services.
In another case, a protester, Ann O'Brien, was convicted of trespass.the Supreme Court's Webster ruling.
Last week her lawyer also relied on the preamble.her appeal was argued before the Missouri Court of Appeals.
Relying on the preamble's statement that a fetus is an unborn child.Last week her lawyer relied on the preamble.
that it left room for grass to grow in the cracks of Roe vs..Wade.this is one of the cracks.
that This will shut down abortion in Missouri.abortion foes succeed in using the preamble to escape prosecution for trespass.
There's no risk to the protesters.you can't keep an abortion clinic open if there are 3,000 people standing outside every day.
and you can't keep an abortion clinic open.there are 3,000 people standing outside every day.
that his client should be treated as a 21-year-old adult.his actual age should be calculated from conception, not from birth.
In Missouri, those caught drinking and driving between the ages of 16 and 21 may have their licenses revoked for one year.those 21 or older suffer only a 30-day suspension.
A Boone County judge rejected the motion.he has appealed.
In one, the lawyer for a 20-year-old resident of Columbia, Mo., who was charged with drunk driving, argued that his client should be treated as a 21-year-old adult because his actual age should be calculated from conception, not from birth.in a case filed in federal court in August, a lawyer is arguing that Missouri authorities are wrongfully imprisoning the fetus of a pregnant woman who is in jail for theft and forgery.
because of the behavior of President Barre's troops.In the port of Berbera, hundreds of men of the rival Issak clan were rounded up in May 1988, imprisoned, and then taken out at night in groups of five to 50 men to be executed without any judicial process whatsoever.
In the port of Berbera, for example, hundreds of men of the rival Issak clan were rounded up in May 1988, imprisoned.and taken out at night in groups of five to 50 men to be executed without any judicial process whatsoever.
The horrific details are only now emerging from a painstakingly documented report, based on hundreds of interviews with randomly selected refugees.What gives these events particular significance is the fact that they are part of a wider drama affecting the strategic positions of both the U.S. and the Soviet Union on the horn of Africa.
the U.S. was forced to accept that lonely Berbera runway as a distant No. 2 to the Soviets' array of airfields next door.the rival Soviet-backed regime of Mengistu Haile Mariam held a total gridlock over neighboring Ethiopia.
As long as the rival Soviet-backed regime of Mengistu Haile Mariam held a total gridlock over neighboring Ethiopia, the U.S. was forced to accept that lonely Berbera runway as a distant No. 2 to the Soviets' array of airfields next door.due to dramatic events on the battlefield over the past few days and weeks, those Soviet bases may soon be as endangered and as lonely as the American runway.
Tigrean armies are now 200 miles north of Addis Ababa, threatening the town of Dese.Mr. Mengistu has been forced to transfer thousands of troops from Eritrea just to hold the town.
to transfer thousands of troops from Eritrea just to hold the town.risking the loss of even more territory in Eritrea only to keep the Tigreans at bay.
like the Eritreans they are among the most anti-Soviet guerrillas in the world.the Tigreans are communists.
that Soviet dominance in Ethiopia is collapsing as fast as President Barre's regime in Somalia is.The U.S. has a historic opportunity both to strike a blow for human rights in Somalia and to undo the superpower flip-flop of the late 1970s on the Horn of Africa.
The State Department, to its credit, has already begun distancing itself from Mr. Barre, evinced by its decision to publish the Gersony report (which the press has ignored)..What's more, the U.S. has suspended $2.5 million in military aid and $1 million in economic aid.this is not enough.
when he goes the runway could go too.the U.S. is still perceived to be tied to Mr. Barre.
the runway could go too.he goes.
It is a certainty that Mr. Barre's days are numbered.The U.S. should take care that its own position in the country does not go down with him.
what will come next in Somalia.whom the successor might be.
Nobody is sure what will come next in Somalia or whom the successor might be.Whoever it is will have to work pretty damn hard to be worse than Barre.
it should continue to back former President Carter's well-intentioned role as a mediator between Mr. Mengistu and the Eritrean guerrillas in Ethiopia, while concomitantly opening up channels of communications with the Tigrean rebels through neighboring Sudan.the State Department positions itself for the post-Barre period in Somalia.
it should continue to back former President Carter's well-intentioned role as a mediator between Mr. Mengistu and the Eritrean guerrillas in Ethiopia, while concomitantly opening up channels of communications with the Tigrean rebels through neighboring Sudan.the State Department positions itself for the post-Barre period in Somalia.
it should continue to back former President Carter's well-intentioned role as a mediator between Mr. Mengistu and the Eritrean guerrillas in Ethiopia.concomitantly opening up channels of communications with the Tigrean rebels through neighboring Sudan.
it should continue to back former President Carter's well-intentioned role as a mediator between Mr. Mengistu and the Eritrean guerrillas in Ethiopia.concomitantly opening up channels of communications with the Tigrean rebels through neighboring Sudan.
There is simply no way to engineer a succession covertly, as is sometimes possible elsewhere on the continent.the U.S. has one great advantage: The Soviets are universally loathed throughout Ethiopia for what they did to the country this past decade -- famine and all.
The only U.S. liability in the region is what remains of the link to Mr. Barre.that should be cut fast.
Output from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is already at a high for the year.most member nations are running flat out.
Output from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is already at a high for the year and most member nations are running flat out.that a handful of members still have enough unused capacity to glut the market and cause an oil-price collapse a few months from now if OPEC doesn't soon adopt a new quota system to corral its chronic cheaters.
to glut the market and cause an oil-price collapse a few months from now.OPEC doesn't soon adopt a new quota system to corral its chronic cheaters.
that a handful of members still have enough unused capacity to glut the market and cause an oil-price collapse a few months from now if OPEC doesn't soon adopt a new quota system to corral its chronic cheaters.the effort by some oil ministers to get OPEC to approve a new permanent production-sharing agreement next month is taking on increasing urgency.
So far this year, rising demand for OPEC oil and production restraint by some members have kept prices firm despite rampant cheating by others.that could change if demand for OPEC's oil softens seasonally early next year.
But that could change.demand for OPEC's oil softens seasonally early next year.
At that rate, a majority of OPEC's 13 members have reached their output limits.that at least three million barrels a day -- and possibly as much as seven million barrels a day -- of spare capacity still exists within OPEC.
The Iraqi oil minister and Saudi oil minister Hisham Nazer insisted in their comments to the conference that their countries would act responsibly to maintain a stable market.in interviews later, both ministers stressed that they expect future OPEC quotas to be based mainly on the production capacity and reserves of each member.
what's the good to be told you can produce at 105% of capacity.you are already producing at 95% or 100% of your capacity.
At an inconclusive Geneva meeting late last month, OPEC's oil ministers halfheartedly approved another increase of one million barrels a day in their production ceiling.They doled it out using the existing formula.
At an inconclusive Geneva meeting late last month, OPEC's oil ministers halfheartedly approved another increase of one million barrels a day in their production ceiling.there was a breakthrough at Geneva.
Still, there was a breakthrough at Geneva.no OPEC member had been willing to accept a reduction in its percentage share of the group's total output target, or ceiling.
Previously, no OPEC member had been willing to accept a reduction in its percentage share of the group's total output target, or ceiling.the concept of disproportionate quotas for those with unused capacity was generally endorsed by the ministers.
Libya accepted Iran's proposal only so long as it was promised production parity with Kuwait.the United Arab Emirates, a chronic quota cheater, refused to give any guarantee it would change its ways.
In the end politics got in the way.the oil ministers continue to study the plan, and it will probably be the basis for discussion at next month's meeting.
But the oil ministers continue to study the plan.it will probably be the basis for discussion at next month's meeting.
to provide Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates much higher official quotas.reducing percentage shares of some others.
to provide Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates much higher official quotas.reducing percentage shares of some others.
Libya's previous conditions are no longer considered a problem.the United Arab Emirates is still an issue.
although the United Arab Emirates is still an issue.Saudi Arabia, OPEC's kingpin has surfaced as a possible obstacle.
Insisting on a 24.5% share of any ceiling, Saudi officials have long pressed for the pro rata distribution of increases to all members.In Geneva they supported Iran's proposal because it would have left the Saudi percentage of the OPEC total intact, and increased actual Saudi volume to nearly 5.3 million barrels daily from five million.
In Geneva, however, they supported Iran's proposal.it would have left the Saudi percentage of the OPEC total intact, and increased actual Saudi volume to nearly 5.3 million barrels daily from five million.
because it would have left the Saudi percentage of the OPEC total intact, and increased actual Saudi volume to nearly 5.3 million barrels daily from five million.Some of the proposed modifications since call on Saudi Arabia to "give back" to the production-sharing pool a token 23,000 barrels.
that the navy is prepared to take Rafales to replace them.the F-18s wear out.
Officially, the statement isn't an attack on the Rafale.unofficially, senior navy officials sharply criticize the Rafale as an air force plane ill-suited to carrier use.
they have made no secret of their preference for the F-18 on operational grounds.they never said so publicly.
Dassault still is run by the founder's son, Chairman Serge Dassault, who has fiercely protected his company's independence.government-controlled.
The Rafale project is the result of France's inability jointly to develop a plane with other countries.French officials question whether the state can continue paying for expensive independent programs.
many of whom scrapped their buy recommendations.seeing Cathay's interim figures.
Fuel and personnel costs are rising.tourism in and through Hong Kong remains clouded by China's turmoil since the June 4 killings in Beijing.
Fuel and personnel costs are rising, and tourism in and through Hong Kong remains clouded by China's turmoil since the June 4 killings in Beijing.delivery delays for the first two of as many as 28 Boeing 747-400s that the carrier has ordered have raised costs because personnel had been hired to man the planes.
In addition, delivery delays for the first two of as many as 28 Boeing 747-400s that the carrier has ordered have raised costs.personnel had been hired to man the planes.
In addition, delivery delays for the first two of as many as 28 Boeing 747-400s that the carrier has ordered have raised costs because personnel had been hired to man the planes.tough competition in the air-freight market is cutting into an important sideline.
And tough competition in the air-freight market is cutting into an important sideline.There is concern that once Hong Kong reverts to China's sovereignty in 1997, Cathay will be forced to play second fiddle to China's often-disparaged flag carrier, Civil Aviation Administration of China, or CAAC.
that Cathay will be forced to play second fiddle to China's often-disparaged flag carrier, Civil Aviation Administration of China, or CAAC.Hong Kong reverts to China's sovereignty in 1997.
The fuel-efficient Airbus planes will be used largely to replace Cathay's aging fleet of Lockheed Tristars for regional flights.the Boeing aircraft will be used on long-haul routes to Europe and North America.
The fuel-efficient Airbus planes will be used largely to replace Cathay's aging fleet of Lockheed Tristars for regional flights.the Boeing aircraft will be used on long-haul routes to Europe and North America.
One step is to beef up its fleet.Cathay is moving some of its labor-intensive data-processing operations outside Hong Kong.
Fierce bidding for young employees in Hong Kong is pushing up Cathay's labor costs by 20% a year for low-level staff.experienced, skilled employees are leaving the colony as part of the brain drain.
Fierce bidding for young employees in Hong Kong is pushing up Cathay's labor costs by 20% a year for low-level staff.experienced, skilled employees are leaving the colony as part of the brain drain.
Some jobs already have been moved to Australia.there are plans to place others in Canada.
Cathay's other routes have retained high load factors.the June 4 killings in Beijing have hurt its China flights.
Cathay is working to promote Hong Kong as a destination worth visiting on its own merits, rather than just a stopover.There has been speculation that Cathay will be among the major private-sector participants in the Hong Kong government's plans to build a new airport, with the carrier possibly investing in its own terminal.
alliances with other carriers -- particularly Cathay's recent link with AMR Corp. 's American Airlines -- as an important part of Cathay's strategy.that Cathay hasn't any interest in swapping equity stakes with the U.S. carrier or with Lufthansa, the West German airline with which it has cooperated for about a decade.
Cathay is approached for such swaps by other carriers on a regular basis.the popularity of share exchanges has grown among European carriers.
We think alliances are very important.we'd rather put funds into our own business rather than someone else's.
We'll never have a big operation in the U.S.they'll never have one as big as us in the Pacific.
We'll never have a big operation in the U.S.they'll never have one as big as us in the Pacific.
We'll never have a big operation in the U.S., and they'll never have one as big as us in the Pacific.this way, American will coordinate good extensions to Boston, New York, Chicago and Dallas.
Cathay has long stated its desire to double its weekly flights into China to 14.it is applying to restart long-canceled flights into Vietnam.
and it is applying to restart long-canceled flights into Vietnam.Further expansion into southern Europe is possible.
such a move isn't an option for Cathay.a large number of Hong Kong companies have reincorporated offshore ahead of 1997.
such a move isn't an option for Cathay.it would jeopardize its landing rights in Hong Kong.
While a large number of Hong Kong companies have reincorporated offshore ahead of 1997, such a move isn't an option for Cathay because it would jeopardize its landing rights in Hong Kong.Mr. Eddington emphatically rules out a move to London.
the airline is putting its faith in the Sino-British agreement on Hong Kong's return to China..A special section dealing with aviation rights states that landing rights for Hong Kong's airlines, which include the smaller Hong Kong Dragon Airlines, will continue to be negotiated by Hong Kong's government.critics fret that post-1997 officials ultimately will be responsible to Beijing.
Cathay would love to keep going.the general sense is they're going to have to do something.
that the carrier will have to evolve and adapt to local changes.that the Sino-British agreement is firm ground to build on for the foreseeable future.
A policeman shakes his head in amazement.he steers them away.
she can't enter.she is accompanied by an inspector.
buildings with substantial damage were color-coded.being inspected.
One building was upgraded to red status.people were taking things out.
One building was upgraded to red status while people were taking things out.a resident who wasn't allowed to go back inside called up the stairs to his girlfriend, telling her to keep sending things down to the lobby.
a different policeman offered to help him get the car out.he sneaked back later to try again.
One man trying to remove his car was told by officials to get out of his garage.When he sneaked back to try again.
The Marina rescue center offered a very San Franciscan response to the disaster.The Marina has become the focal point of city efforts to reunite residents with any pets that may have fled or become lost during the earthquake.
The Marina also has become the focal point of city efforts to reunite residents with any pets that may have fled or become lost during the earthquake.The San Francisco Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals has been providing medical care, food, water and foster homes for quake-displaced animals.
it has received more than 100 requests for foster homes on behalf of dogs and cats.some people have sought temporary homes for birds and fish.
though some people have sought temporary homes for birds and fish.one parakeet owner returning home found that her apartment, like many others in the Marina, didn't have heat A warm foster home has been found.
She can stay there with no heat.for a parakeet, that can be deadly.
The neighborhood around Alexander Haagen Co. 's Vermont-Slauson Shopping Center in the Watts section of Los Angeles resembles the crime-ridden, deteriorating sections of many inner cities and certainly isn't the sort of area one would choose to visit.turn into the shopping center's parking lot, and one could be in the safe, busy mall of a prosperous suburb.
But turn into the shopping center's parking lot.one could be in the safe, busy mall of a prosperous suburb.
A successful low-crime mall in a high-crime area violates the more typical inner-city pattern, in which commercial areas are taken over by unruly youth, gangs, and the criminal element, with an erosion of the customer base, development capital, and insurability..Major regional and national chain stores are replaced by mom-and-pop operations offering poorer-quality merchandise at higher prices..Along with the exodus of shopping opportunities is an exodus of the jobs that the major chains used to provide to community residents.there is even more to the Vermont-Slauson Center than a good place to shop.
that community decay is not inevitable.that the gangs are not invincible.
the $2,500-per-job public investment should repay itself in a few years.many of these jobs are filled by local residents, who move from the welfare rolls to the tax rolls.
As many of these jobs are filled by local residents, who move from the welfare rolls to the tax rolls, the $2,500-per-job public investment should repay itself in a few years.that is before consideration of increased state and local revenues from taxes and fees on sales, real estate, licenses and the like.
And that is.consideration of increased state and local revenues from taxes and fees on sales, real estate, licenses and the like.
An additional benefit is the creation of jobs.Profits are plowed back into the community.
In the Grand Boulevard Plaza developed by Matanky Realty Group in Chicago's Third Ward, opposite the Robert Taylor Homes, 29% of the stores to date have been leased to blacks.14% to members of other minority groups.
Primarily that putting one of these inner-city deals together takes time, patience, breadth of vision and negotiating skills that not all developers possess.Security costs are quite high.
The entire site is enclosed by a 6-to-8-foot-high ornamental iron fence with a small number of remote-controlled gates..Shrubs and flowers give it a pleasing and non-fortress-like appearance..Infrared motion detectors and closed-circuit TV cameras monitor the entire center; lighting levels are three to five times the industry standard..The security command post, camouflaged as second-story retail space, has its own "crow's nest" above the roofs of the other buildings, with a panoramic view of the entire center..Local law enforcement is present in a sub-station occupying space donated by the center.These features are used in Matanky Realty Group's Grand Boulevard Plaza.
These security costs are kept off-budget.the centers' site acquisition, construction, and financing costs were reduced by such programs as Urban Development Action Grants, Economic Development Administration Grants, Community Development Block Grants, tax-free Industrial Development Bonds, Enterprise Zone tax write-offs, city infrastructure grants, and tax increment financing.
Many of these programs no longer exist, or have been severely cut back.since these centers appear to pay for themselves, there is nothing to prevent state and local governments from enacting legislation with similar provisions.
However there is nothing to prevent state and local governments from enacting legislation with similar provisions.these centers appear to pay for themselves.
developers will respond.the risks and rewards are reasonable.
One company recently was listed on the New York Stock Exchange.another will join the Big Board from the over-the-counter market this week.
Sierra Tucson Cos., Tucson, Ariz., started trading under STSN.on the Pacific Stock Exchange, put and call options on the common stock of Aldus Corp. started trading.
a sluggish segment of the Nasdaq over-the-counter market could show some flash.growth regains its glamour among investors.
The market will have to look for a new theme now.that theme will be a return to growth.
These are sometimes dubbed "emerging" growth companies.they also have expanding-profit track records.
These are sometimes dubbed "emerging" growth companies.though they have expanding-profit track records.
not all small stocks have earnings-growth momentum.many growth stocks are small.
That's an important distinction.some analysts and brokers, who perennially predict that small stocks are about to outperform bigger issues, may use any spurt in growth issues to help them sell all small stocks.
You can find some good, quality companies over the counter.investors should be selective.
we should get better valuations of growth stocks.the market refocuses on earnings.
The average issue on Standard & Poor's 500-stock Index gained 35% last year.Smaller-stock earnings rose between 15% and 20%.
Understandably, smaller growth stocks haven't been in favor recently.earnings growth took a back seat to cash flow, restructuring and takeover potential, and breakup value as the preferred stock-picking standards for much of the year.
In addition, earnings growth took a back seat to cash flow, restructuring and takeover potential, and breakup value as the preferred stock-picking standards for much of the year.the smaller growth stocks aren't widely traded, and so are harder to buy and sell quickly than blue chips.
Also, the smaller growth stocks aren't widely traded.and are harder to buy and sell quickly than blue chips.
Understandably, smaller growth stocks haven't been in favor recently.Morgan Stanley's Index of 40 Emerging Growth Stocks is up only 13% for the year, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has leaped 24% and the S&P 500 has grown 25%.
As a result, Morgan Stanley's Index of 40 Emerging Growth Stocks is up only 13% for the year.the Dow Jones Industrial Average has leaped 24% and the S&P 500 has grown 25%.
while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has leaped 24%.the S&P 500 has grown 25%.
while the Dow Jones Industrial Average has leaped 24%.the S&P 500 has grown 25%.
The Nasdaq Composite has gained 23% this year.that's largely due to the 100 largest nonfinancial stocks, which have soared 30%.
Some investors are skeptical of growth stocks.investing in them means ignoring that maxim found in the fine print of some investment advertisements -- that past performance isn't indicative of future results.
Some investors are skeptical of growth stocks.more money managers are reassured that profit is regaining importance.
Mark Schoeppner, portfolio manager at Pittsburgh-based Quaker Capital Management, says that in reaction to nervousness about debt-laden buy-out transactions, analysts and investors now appear to be "valuing stock based on future earnings as opposed to the amount of debt the company can support.Barney Hallingby, managing director of research at Hambrecht & Quist believes earnings growth is beginning to play a greater part in investors' buying decisions.
St. Jude's market value on Nasdaq exceeds $1 billion.it isn't a small stock.
Merchants Bank of New York lost 1 to 106.reporting that its third-quarter net income fell to $1.62 a share from last year's $1.67 a share.
Eliot Savings Bank lost 7/8 to 1 5/8.reporting that it had a $4.8 million loss in the latest third quarter mostly because of loan-loss provisions.
BanPonce jumped 4 1/2 to 47 3/4.agreeing to be acquired by Banco Popular de Puerto Rico for $56.25 a share.
BanPonce jumped 4 1/2 to 47 3/4 after agreeing to be acquired by Banco Popular de Puerto Rico for $56.25 a share.Banco Popular dropped 1 1/4 to 21 1/2.
BanPonce jumped 4 1/2 to 47 3/4 after agreeing to be acquired by Banco Popular de Puerto Rico for $56.25 a share.Banco Popular dropped 1 1/4 to 21 1/2.
Qintex Entertainment dropped 2 5/8 to 1 1/2.seeking protection from creditor lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code for itself and its two operating subsidiaries, Hal Roach Studios and Qintex Productions.
Qintex Entertainment dropped 2 5/8 to 1 1/2.seeking protection from creditor lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code for itself and its two operating subsidiaries, Hal Roach Studios and Qintex Productions.
Raymond Corp. lost 1 to 10.it said late Thursday that it will take a $4.4 million charge in its third quarter for reserves to cover potential charges in connection with the closing and sale of a manufacturing plant.
Raymond Corp. lost 1 to 10.it said late Thursday that it will take a $4.4 million charge in its third quarter for reserves to cover potential charges in connection with the closing and sale of a manufacturing plant.
Raymond Corp. lost 1 to 10 after it said late Thursday that it will take a $4.4 million charge in its third quarter for reserves to cover potential charges in connection with the closing and sale of a manufacturing plant.the company has suspended its quarterly dividend.
LIN added 5/8 to 110 5/8.McCaw lost 1/4 to 41.
McCaw has called for a "fair auction" of LIN.which entered a stock-swap merger pact with BellSouth.
The coupon will be reset in one year at a rate that will give the issue a market value of 101.the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset can only be 15.5%.
However, the maximum coupon rate on the issue can only be 15.5%.it is reset.
However, the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset can only be 15.5%.Debenture holders will receive the equivalent of 10% of the common stock of CNW Holdings.
The equity kicker is not attached to the offering.it will be offered after a filing for 68,548 common shares of CNW Holdings is declared effective by the Securities & Exchange Commission.
it will be offered.a filing for 68,548 common shares of CNW Holdings is declared effective by the Securities & Exchange Commission.
First Interstate made the move under pressure from regulators.regulators have concluded that lenders' reserves are far too low to absorb their future Arizona losses and are forcing bankers to do something about it.
regulators responded by raising their recommendation to $350 million.First Interstate balked, arguing that the figure was too high.
the provision "wasn't forced upon us.the regulators made it very clear what they thought was an appropriate number.
At least six of Arizona's 12 savings and loan institutions have either been taken over by the government's conservatorship program or are essentially insolvent; they are sitting on enormous unrecognized losses.Western Savings & Loan Association, which is now in conservatorship, had tangible capital-assets minus liabilities -- of a negative $357.4 million at June 30..It had a $258.9 million loss in the second quarter..Yet it still held $916.3 million of repossessed real estate, for which it maintains no reserves whatsoever..It also had $479.7 million of past-due loans.
It had a $258.9 million loss in the second quarter.it still held $916.3 million of repossessed real estate, for which it maintains no reserves whatsoever.
It had a $258.9 million loss in the second quarter.it still held $916.3 million of repossessed real estate, for which it maintains no reserves whatsoever.
It had a $258.9 million loss in the second quarter.It had $479.7 million of past-due loans.
its level of reserves against those wasn't immediately available.it is believed to be small.
They have no reserves against the real estate.their reserves against the loans are miniscule compared with the levels of reserves banks are moving to set up.
Other lenders have been recovering only 50 cents to 60 cents on the dollar on foreclosed Arizona property.they can sell it at all.
Now, annual population growth is running at about 2% a year, some desert tracts bought three years ago for $90,000 an acre are being sold at $25,000 an acre.Phoenix has a seven-year supply of unoccupied office space.
It's horrible to say.it's unfortunate that earthquake wasn't in Phoenix -- it might have knocked out some of our empty buildings.
That's up from about 687 a month in 1985.it's accelerating.
foreclosures have climbed to about 1,482 a month just in Maricopa County, where Phoenix is located..That's up from about 687 a month in 1985, and it's accelerating.residential real estate, which had remained fairly strong through most of the downturn, is beginning to comprise more and more of the foreclosures.
Moreover, Mr. Shattuck and others said residential real estate, which had remained fairly strong through most of the downturn, is beginning to comprise more and more of the foreclosures.the generally frail condition of Arizona's lenders means there is little capital available in the state to shore up the economy and slow down the slide.
there is not a solvent S&L in the state.the amount of viable bank capital is very low.
to fall another 20%.stabilizing.
Since its unsuccessful bid for BankAmerica Corp. in 1986, the bank has undertaken a major restructuring in an effort to cut costs and boost performance.many industry officials believe it may be ripe for a takeover bid, especially with interstate banking set to begin in California in 1991.
First Interstate stock closed at $57.625, down 25 cents, in composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange.Standard & Poor's Corp. lowered its ratings on Valley National Corp. 's senior debt to double-B from double-B-plus, affecting about $300 million of long-term debt..S&P also lowered ratings on unsecured deposits and issues backed by a letter of credit from the bank holding company's principal unit, Valley National Bank of Arizona.
Separately, Standard & Poor's Corp. lowered its ratings on Valley National Corp. 's senior debt to double-B from double-B-plus.S&P lowered ratings on unsecured deposits and issues backed by a letter of credit from the bank holding company's principal unit, Valley National Bank of Arizona.
Commercial paper holders have reinvested their funds.consumer deposits have been up in the last few days.
The IL-4 receptor on the surface of such cells receives the hormone's message to rally the body's defense.in certain conditions such as autoimmune diseases and allergies and transplant rejection, doctors would like to damp the immune response so such cells don't touch off harmful inflammatory reactions or cell destruction.
to damp the immune response.such cells don't touch off harmful inflammatory reactions or cell destruction.
That's a faster growth rate than reported by Compaq, which didn't post similar results until its fourth year, in 1986.Compaq had achieved that level of sales faster than any previous manufacturing start-up.
They've had this field to themselves for over a year now.they've been greatly rewarded.
They've had this field to themselves for over a year now, and they've been greatly rewarded.In the coming months this is likely to change.
Next month, Seagate Technology, which is the dominant supplier of hard-disk drives for personal computers, plans to introduce its first family of low-power drives for battery-operated computers.the Japanese are likely to keep close on Conner's heels.
Both Toshiba and NEC already produce hard-disk drives.Sony also is studying the field.
Both Toshiba and NEC already produce hard-disk drives.and Sony is studying the field.
Both Toshiba and NEC already produce hard-disk drives, and Sony also is studying the field.Conner isn't standing still.
Each of the three drives uses a mere 1.5 watts of power.one weighs just 5.5 ounces.
Conner already is shipping its new drives.Last week Compaq introduced its first notebook computer to rave reviews..Conner is supplying hard-disk drives for the machine, which weighs only six pounds and fits in a briefcase.
building hard-disk drives that are smaller and use far less power than those offered by competitors such as Seagate.The availability of these drives boosted demand for laptop computers.
building hard-disk drives that are smaller and use far less power than those offered by competitors such as Seagate.The availability of these drives boosted demand for laptop computers.
From its inception, Conner has targeted the market for battery-operated machines, building hard-disk drives that are smaller and use far less power than those offered by competitors such as Seagate.Conner makes hard-disk drives for desktop computers and is a major supplier to Compaq.
he plans to franchise it in other states.the service is available only in California.
Local bar associations in some states have numbers that provide free tape-recorded messages explaining certain areas of the law.There are "800" hotlines which refer people to lawyers, usually personal-injury specialists, for in-office consultation.
a receptionist refers the call to one of six attorneys.a caller reaches Telelawyer by dialing 900-TELELAW.
and perform research.necessary.
his lawyers may refer the client to a law firm.the matter requires further legal work or litigation.
If the matter requires further legal work or litigation his lawyers may refer the client to a law firm.Cane & Associates doesn't receive referral fees.
The firm is getting about 50 calls a day.the average call lasts about 15 minutes.
A federal court jury in New York found U.S. Rep. Robert Garcia (D., N.Y.) and his wife, Jane Lee Garcia, guilty of extorting $76,000 from Wedtech in return for official acts by the congressman.The jury convicted them of extortion in obtaining a $20,000, interest-free loan from a Wedtech officer.
they're leaving.they wanted a different environment -- a smaller firm they would be principals of.
Shea & Gould held a number of discussions with the five partners during the past few weeks to get them to stay.that the five were firmly committed to running their own firm.
the public will be notified once a formal complaint is filed against an attorney.investigations into lawyer misconduct will remain secret.
the public will be notified.a formal complaint is filed against an attorney.
While investigations into lawyer misconduct will remain secret, the public will be notified once a formal complaint is filed against an attorney.Illinois attorneys will lose the right to sue clients who file malicious complaints against them.
non-lawyers shouldn't be on the inquiry panels.they are unlikely to appreciate the nuances of attorney-client relationships.
non-lawyers shouldn't be on the inquiry panels because they are unlikely to appreciate the nuances of attorney-client relationships.publishing the names of lawyers who are facing charges unnecessarily subjects them to public derogation.
non-lawyers shouldn't be on the inquiry panels because they are unlikely to appreciate the nuances of attorney-client relationships In addition publishing the names of lawyers who are facing charges unnecessarily subjects them to public derogation.to reverse the Illinois Supreme Court's decision to institute the changes.
Drexel doesn't have a Delaware office.the New York firm has been negotiating settlements that would allow it to operate freely nationwide despite its record as an admitted felon.
Drexel pleaded guilty in September to six felony counts of securities and mail fraud.it made a $650 million civil settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Executives close to Philip Morris said that the tobacco and food giant has asked Backer Spielvogel Bates Worldwide Inc., a unit of Saatchi & Saatchi Co., and possibly others to work on creative ideas for the account..Several executives said another potential contender is WPP Group's Ogilvy & Mather agency, which works on some other Philip Morris products.mentioned as a contender was TBWA Advertising.
Also mentioned as a contender was TBWA Advertising.the company denied it was participating.
The account billed almost $60 million last year.Philip Morris has scaled back ad spending on the brand over the past year and it now bills about $30 million to $40 million.
But Philip Morris has scaled back ad spending on the brand over the past year.it now bills about $30 million to $40 million.
who the guy was.what he was doing.
Philip Morris put the account up for review in 1986.Wells Rich Greene in an effort directed by Mary Wells Lawrence, emerged the victor of the review and retained the business.
it has lost a number of big accounts this year, including the $20 million to $25 million Cadbury-Schweppes Canada Dry and Sunkist accounts, the $18 million Procter & Gamble Co. Sure deodorant account and the $10 million Polo/Ralph Lauren business.Wells Rich recently picked up Hertz Corp. 's $25 million to $30 million account.
This city is girding for gridlock today.hundreds of thousands of commuters avoid travel routes ravaged by last week's earthquake.
This city is girding for gridlock today.hundreds of thousands of commuters avoid travel routes ravaged by last week's earthquake.
The Bay Bridge, the main artery into San Francisco from the east, will be closed for at least several weeks.most of the ramps connecting the city to its main link to the south, the 101 freeway, have been closed for repairs.
Meetings canceled by Apple Computer Inc. 's European sales force and by other groups raised the specter of empty hotel rooms and restaurants.It raised hackles of the city's tourism boosters.
it had provided the quickest series of exits for commuters from the Bay Bridge heading into the Financial District.it was closed Tuesday.
little of that involved major structural damage.many of these buildings sustained heavy damage.
Some of that money will be available for highway repair and special emergency aid.members of the legislature are also mulling over a temporary state gasoline tax to raise money for earthquake relief.
Some of that money will be available for highway repair and special emergency aid.but members of the legislature are mulling over a temporary state gasoline tax to raise money for earthquake relief.
but members of the legislature are also mulling over a temporary state gasoline tax to raise money for earthquake relief.state initiatives restrict the ability of the legislature to raise such taxes unless the voters approve in a statewide referendum.
However, state initiatives restrict the ability of the legislature to raise such taxes.the voters approve in a statewide referendum.
Bond Corp. Holdings Ltd. posted a loss for fiscal 1989 of 980.2 million Australian dollars (US$762.4 million), the largest in Australian corporate history.In preliminary, unaudited results reported Friday, Bond Corp. posted an operating loss of A$814.1 million for the year ended June 30.
Operating revenue rose 69% to A$8.48 billion from A$5.01 billion.the net interest bill jumped 85% to A$686.7 million from A$371.1 million.
The results included a A$453.4 million write-off of future income-tax benefits and a provision for a loss of A$149.5 million on the sale of a stake of about 20% in Lonrho PLC.the tax benefits remain available and might be used later.
the general financial performance of its U.S. brewing operations, G. Heileman Brewing Co., was "disappointing.this has been reflected in the results.
Now Bond Corp. has agreed to sell at least half its Australian brewing assets..It has sold billions of dollars of other assets and has more on the block.in a TV interview Sunday Mr. Bond said, "We've taken a big loss..We've taken it on the chin..But we're out there and we're going to stay in business.
We've taken a big loss..We've taken it on the chin.we're out there and we're going to stay in business.
But we're out there.we're going to stay in business.
it will look at opportunities in brewing, property and energy resources to the extent consistent with the dominant objective of manageable debt-to-assets ratios.The result "will be a very different group in size and structure.
it will look at opportunities in brewing, property and energy resources to the extent consistent with the dominant objective of manageable debt-to-assets ratios.The result "will be a very different group in size and structure.
Some analysts contend the total writeoffs should have been much greater.Bond Corp. 's auditors cited a list of several assets and deals about which there is "uncertainty" regarding the current value and potential impact on the firm.
the acknowledged losses mean net asset backing is in the red to the tune of 53 Australian cents a share, vs. positive asset backing of A$1.92 a share a year ago.Having fully considered all aspects of the company's state of affairs and future cash flows, the directors confirm absolutely that the company is solvent.
Having fully considered all aspects of the company's state of affairs and future cash flows, the directors confirm absolutely that the company is solvent.in a note to the results, directors said if the "true worth" of some of the group's assets were taken into account instead of using book values, the negative net asset backing a share would turn into "a substantial positive" one.
the negative net asset backing a share would turn into "a substantial positive" one.the "true worth" of some of the group's assets were taken into account instead of using book values.
The reason was not high interest rates or labor costs.was there a shortage of customers in the area, the residential Inwood section of northern Manhattan.
The business closed.the owner was murdered by robbers.
The business closed.the owner was murdered by robbers.
The first time he was shot in the hand.he chased the robbers outside.
that almost 2% of all retail-sales workers suffer injuries from crime each year, almost twice the national average and about four times the rate for teachers, truck drivers, medical workers and door-to-door salespeople.these figures show only the most visible part of the problem.
that almost 2% of all retail-sales workers suffer injuries from crime each year, almost twice the national average and about four times the rate for teachers, truck drivers, medical workers and door-to-door salespeople.these figures show only the most visible part of the problem.
New York is a prime example of a city where crime strangles small-business development.by no means the highest crime community in the country.
that 26% reported difficulty recruiting personnel.that 19% said they were considering moving.
their annual crime losses averaged about $15,000, with an additional $8,385 annual cost in security -- enough money to hire at least one more worker.The costs of crime may be enough to destroy a struggling business.
Small neighborhood businesses could provide more jobs.crime were not so harmful to creating and maintaining those businesses.
The shift of retailing to large shopping centers has created even greater economies of scale for providing low-crime business environments.Since 1984 revenues of the 10 largest guard companies, primarily serving such big businesses, have increased by almost 62%.
Bigger business can often better afford to minimize the cost of crime.Few small neighborhood businesses can afford such protection, even in collaboration with other local merchants.
Some cities, including New York, have experimented with special tax districts for commercial areas that provide additional patrols funded by local businesses.this raises added cost barriers to urban entrepreneurship.
Increased patrolling of business zones makes sense.urban crime is heavily concentrated in such "hot spots" of pedestrian density.
an increased police presence might even deter further attacks.no guarantee.
They will have to revisit this issue.they'll have to revisit it before long.
That's a fundamental lesson for investors.its truth was demonstrated once again in the performance of mutual funds during and after the stock market's Friday-the-13th plunge.
Stock funds, like the market as a whole, generally dropped more than 2% in the week through last Thursday, according to figures compiled by Lipper Analytical Services Inc.several other types of funds shielded investors from the worst of the market's slide.
One week's performance shouldn't be the basis for any investment decision.the latest mutual fund performance figures do show what can happen when the going gets rough.
what can happen.the going gets rough.
what can happen.the going gets rough.
how a fund did.the market got hammered.
how's this car going to perform.the road's rough.
how's this car going to perform.there's snow and ice.
General equity funds fell an average of 2.35% in the week ended Thursday, compared with a 2.32% slide for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.that there were a number of ways investors could have cushioned themselves from the stock market's gyrations.
that there were a number of ways investors could have cushioned themselves from the stock market's gyrations.Gold-oriented funds which invest in companies that mine and process the precious metal, posted an average decline of 1.15%..Flexible portfolio funds, which allocate investments among stocks, bonds and money-market instruments and other investments, declined at about half the rate of stock funds -- an average drop of 1.27%, according to Lipper..Global allocation funds take the asset-allocation concept one step further by investing at least 25% of their portfolios outside the U.S..This gives them the added benefits of international diversification -- including a foreign-exchange boost during periods, like the past week, when the dollar declines against other major currencies..With all that going for them, global flexible portfolio funds declined only 1.07% in the week through last Thursday.
But the latest mutual fund performance figures do show what can happen when the going gets rough.while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough, there's also a price to pay: A diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot.
But there's also a price to pay.the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough.
while the merits of diversification shine through.times are tough.
while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough.But there's a price to pay.
But while the merits of diversification shine through when times are tough, there's also a price to pay: A diversified portfolio always underperforms an undiversified portfolio during those times when the investment in the undiversified portfolio is truly hot.Friday the 13th notwithstanding, stocks have been this year's hot investment.
And Friday the 13th notwithstanding, stocks have been this year's hot investment.even including the latest week, the average general stock fund has soared more than 24% so far this year.
Thus, even including the latest week, the average general stock fund has soared more than 24% so far this year.global asset allocation funds have turned in an average total return of about 19%, while domestic flexible portfolios are up about 17%.
By comparison, global asset allocation funds have turned in an average total return of about 19%.domestic flexible portfolios are up about 17%.
By comparison, global asset allocation funds have turned in an average total return of about 19%.domestic flexible portfolios are up about 17%.
Fixed-income funds have returned 8.2%.gold funds have risen just 4.55%, on average.
Fixed-income funds have returned 8.2%.gold funds have risen just 4.55%, on average.
That's the problem with trying to hedge too much You don't make any real money.Over the last 20 years an investor putting $5,000 a year in the S&P 500 would have made nearly twice as much than if it were invested in Treasury bills.
Some equity funds did better than others in the week that began on Friday the 13th.The $4 million Monetta Fund was the seventh top performing fund for the week, with a 2.65% return.
to sell.a stock appreciates 30% over its cost.
interest rates will continue to trend lower.the economy will slow around the world.
giving them the benefit of foreign currency translations.the dollar is weak.
their value expressed in dollars goes up when those currencies rise against the dollar.the funds' investments are denominated in foreign currencies.
their value expressed in dollars goes up.those currencies rise against the dollar.
Because the funds' investments are denominated in foreign currencies, their value expressed in dollars goes up when those currencies rise against the dollar.when the dollar rises against major foreign currencies, as it did for much of this year, the dollar value of these funds declines.
But the dollar value of these funds declines.the dollar rises against major foreign currencies, as it did for much of this year.
Of the funds that fared the worst in the post-Oct. 13 week, two are heavily invested in airlines stocks.both the Fidelity Select Air Transportation Portfolio and the National Aviation & Technology fund posted better-than-average returns for the the year to date: 30.09% for the Fidelity Air Transportation fund and a whopping 47.24% for National Aviation & Technology.
he said that what happened last week "may not be enough of an adjustment..There's either more to come or an extremely long period of dullness.investors don't seem to think so.
People showed some staying power.and interest in buying equities.
Officials declined to disclose the value of the transaction or the exact stake that GRE will hold in Nationwide Anglia Estate Agents.the companies said that Nationwide Anglia Estate Agents will market GRE life insurance, pension and investment products through its more than 1,000 retail outlets in the U.K.
He has put some of his aesthetic ideas into practice with his design of the four-star Quilted Giraffe restaurant -- "architecturally impeccable," Progressive Architecture magazine called it -- and his remodeling of Paul Stuart, the Madison Avenue clothing store..He has designed furniture and homes as well as commercial and office space..He is now designing a Broadway stage set for a show by the band Kid Creole and the Coconuts.What really stirs his muse is aerobic architecture.
as much of the Polish center as possible will be made from aluminum, steel and glass recycled from Warsaw's abundant rubble.Mr. McDonough's plans get executed.
as much of the Polish center as possible will be made from aluminum, steel and glass recycled from Warsaw's abundant rubble..A 20-story mesh spire will stand atop 50 stories of commercial space..Solar-powered batteries will make the spire glow..The windows will open..The carpets won't be glued down.walls will be coated with nontoxic finishes.
the Poles will compensate for the trade center's emissions of carbon dioxide, a prime suspect in the global atmospheric warming many scientists fear.Mr. McDonough has his way.
All architects want to be aware of the ecological consequences of their work.we can't all carry it to that extreme.
and attended 19 schools in places ranging from Hong Kong to Shaker Heights, Ohio.entering Dartmouth College.
Jute, rather than a synthetic material, lies under the tacked-down carpets.the desks are of wood and granite instead of plastic.
It "really looks beautiful and is very light.I guess I didn't really notice the trees..Maybe they were hidden by all the people.
Neither the Quilted Giraffe nor the Paul Stuart renovation reflects much of Mr. McDonough's environmental concern.Mr. McDonough and friends planted 1,000 acorns around the country.
it is Poland.any nation can use environmentally benign architecture.
that perhaps a quarter of Poland's soil is too contaminated for safe farming because of air pollution.The pollution is killing forests and destroying buildings that date back to the Middle Ages.
Mr. Muniak's company, Balag Ltd., has agreed to set aside the money to plant and maintain it.discussions are still going on over where to place it and how to ensure that it will be maintained.
Pittston Co. 's third-quarter net income plunged 79%, reflecting the impact of a prolonged and bitter labor strike at its coal operations.Pittston owns Brink's Inc., the security service, and Burlington Air Express, the air-freight concern.
In addition to expected losses tied to the labor strike, the coal group has spent almost $20 million since the strike began for security.the group's third-quarter loss widened to $9.8 million from the second quarter's $3.6 million.
seasonal factors are likely to hinder Burlington Air from matching third-quarter results in the fourth quarter.the tone" of domestic and international air-freight markets remains sound.
both Democrat David Dinkins and Republican Rudolph Giuliani are in trouble.they stumble and bumble toward election day two weeks from tomorrow.
Mr. Dinkins, the Manhattan borough president, can afford more bumbling and stumbling.he holds a comfortable 20-point lead in most of the public-opinion polls.
Mr. Dinkins, the Manhattan borough president, can afford more bumbling and stumbling because he holds a comfortable 20-point lead in most of the public-opinion polls.in the past 10 days, he has taken a series of body blows to his pride and his reputation that could adversely affect his ability to govern this tumultuous city should he become New York's first black mayor.
Ordinarily, a clever opponent would find a way to capitalize on the other side's misfortunes.Mr. Giuliani, a celebrated prosecutor, has had difficulty switching from his crime-busting, finger-pointing mode to a political stance that suggests he might know something about running this big, troubled city.
But Mr. Giuliani, a celebrated prosecutor, has had difficulty switching from his crime-busting, finger-pointing mode to a political stance that suggests he might know something about running this big, troubled city.now, at the crucial moment, he's running out of money.
This is the nation's biggest city.traditionally, its mayor is the nation's best-known urban politician.
that in Mr. Giuliani, the nation's best-known prosecutor, they had a chance for a huge upset in the heart of Democratic territory.that they would pick up a new political star.
Republicans figured that in Mr. Giuliani, the nation's best-known prosecutor, they had a chance for a huge upset in the heart of Democratic territory and that they would pick up a new political star.it hasn't worked out that way.
We're picking up steam It just hasn't gotten down to the engine room yet.the steam may never reach the engine room.
For his campaign desperately needs cash to keep Mr. Ailes's commercials on the air beyond Wednesday or Thursday.Mr. Giuliani latches on to an issue that has Mr. Dinkins reeling.
Historically, New York is almost always in trouble.the trouble it faces now under Democratic rule seems bigger and more daunting than anything it has faced in the past.
This year, the city faces a budget deficit that could become even bigger next year.hardly surprising, many residents trying to cope with the city's other problems are constantly on edge, one ethnic group scrapping with another.
People weren't so happy in the 1930s.at least, back then they didn't generally direct their anger at each other.
He defeated the contentious Mr. Koch in the Democratic primary.he seemed to offer hope he could heal the city's racial and ethnic wounds.
Both candidates are negotiating about holding debates.Mr. Dinkins is widely seen as the major obstacle for scheduling them.
He's got to get Dinkins's negatives up.our polls show voters don't like the attack stuff.
that he's waffled on abortion and gay rights, sought the support of both the Liberal and Conservative parties.that he turned to comedian Jackie Mason for help with Jewish voters.
Mr. Mason left the campaign.telling reporters Mr. Dinkins is "a fancy 'shvartzer' with a moustache.
when he was being considered for deputy mayor.a routine check unearthed the extraordinary fact that he hadn't paid his income tax for the previous four years.
It began in 1973, when he was being considered for deputy mayor, and a routine check unearthed the extraordinary fact that he hadn't paid his income tax for the previous four years.now he's busily trying to explain an arrangement in which he sold stock in Inner City Broadcasting Co., headed by his old friend and patron, Percy Sutton, to his son, David Dinkins Jr., for $58,000.
He waits to talk about it.after he gets caught.
to talk about it.he gets caught.
It looks like serious tax evasion.So far no one -- not even former U.S. attorney Giuliani -- has been able to pinpoint just what law Mr. Dinkins has broken or just what tax he has evaded.
He's had a history of deception.this is the latest chapter.
found hanged under London's Blackfriar's Bridge.the bank's collapse.
papers exonerating the Vatican bank from blame in the scandal.showing that the bank, known as the Istituto per le Opere di Religione, channeled funds to East bloc groups such as Solidarity in Poland.
its board elected Kieran E. Burke, a consultant to Drexel Burnham Lambert Group Inc., as chief executive officer, a new post, and as president.The company named Michael E. Gellert, a director and a major shareholder, to fill the vacant seat of chairman.
that it welcomes the investigation.that it will "cooperate fully.
Messrs..Lee and Bynoe last July announced a deal that would have made them the first black principal owners of a major professional sports franchise.the deal fell apart last week for lack of financing.
Royal withdrew its offer to buy Realist, a maker of optical and electronic products based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., for $14.06 a share in July.Realist disclosed the Ammann purchase.
and wouldn't have a response.it had an opportunity to review it.
they don't see the problems being fixed real quick.it started "several promotional programs" to spur retail sales in the fall and winter.
With the exception of van conversions, the industry has seen a decline from 1988's robust sales.the rate of the decline snowballed in August, with unit sales to dealers for the month down 10.5% from a year earlier, according to the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association.
With the exception of van conversions, the industry has seen a decline from 1988's robust sales.the rate of the decline snowballed in August, with unit sales to dealers for the month down 10.5% from a year earlier, according to the Recreation Vehicle Industry Association.
It's a large-ticket discretionary purchase.when there's talk and concern about the economy, it's not unreasonable for a portion of the buying public to defer purchases.
So it's not unreasonable for a portion of the buying public to defer purchases.there's talk and concern about the economy.
Mr. Curran expects industry RV sales for all of 1989 to fall about 5% from 1988.the weakness could continue in the first half of next year.
the weakness could continue in the first half of next year.the industry has "a good decade ahead.
the industry has "a good decade ahead.aging baby boomers fulfill the industry's dreams by buying RVs.
Winnebago was hit especially hard in the latest downturn.unit sales in its bread-and-butter motor home business tumbled 25% industrywide in August, and 10.4% in the first eight months of the year.
Winnebago was hit especially hard in the latest downturn because unit sales in its bread-and-butter motor home business tumbled 25% industrywide in August, and 10.4% in the first eight months of the year.it suffered in the quarter from incentive programs, losses from discontinuing a motor home line and costs of developing a new commercial vehicle, among other things.
the consensus among economists and money managers is that the news will be negative.the government prepares to release the next batch of economic reports.
As the government prepares to release the next batch of economic reports, the consensus among economists and money managers is that the news will be negative.that, they say, will be good for bonds.
Investors rushed to buy bonds during the summer.prices soared on speculation that interest rates would continue to fall.
Investors rushed to buy bonds during the summer as prices soared on speculation that interest rates would continue to fall.when it became clear that rates had stabilized and that the Fed's credit-easing policy was on hold, bond yields jumped and prices tumbled.
But bond yields jumped and prices tumbled.it became clear that rates had stabilized and that the Fed's credit-easing policy was on hold.
that rates had stabilized.that the Fed's credit-easing policy was on hold.
bond yields jumped.prices tumbled.
Long-term bonds have performed erratically this year.a group of long-term Treasury bonds tracked by Merrill Lynch & Co. produced a total return of 1% in the first quarter, 12.45% in the second quarter and -0.06% in the third quarter.
Now some investment analysts insist that the economic climate has turned cold and gloomy.they are urging clients to buy bonds before the rally begins.
Now some investment analysts insist that the economic climate has turned cold and gloomy.they are urging clients to buy bonds before the rally begins.
to buy bonds.the rally begins.
that consumer spending is slowing, corporate profit margins are being squeezed, business confidence is slipping.construction and manufacturing industries are depressed.
Add it all up.it means "that the Fed has a little leeway to ease its credit policy stance without the risk of rekindling inflation.
it ended Friday at about 8 11/16%.the rate briefly drifted even lower following the stock market sell-off that occurred Oct. 13.
which should benefit more quickly than longer-term bonds.interest rates fall.
James Kochan, chief fixed-income strategist at Merrill Lynch, is touting shorter-term securities.Mr. Kochan likes long-term, investment-grade corporate bonds and long-term Treasurys.
these bonds should appreciate in value.some investors seek safer securities.
there appears to be good demand for top-quality, long-term paper from both domestic and overseas accounts.the {Tennessee Valley Authority} sale is any guide.
Bullish bond market sentiment is on the rise again.persuading investors to buy bonds may be especially tough this week, when the U.S. government will auction more than $30 billion of new securities.
the bailout bonds were yielding about 1/20 percentage point more than the Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond.the size of the Refcorp offering was announced last week and when-issued trading activity began.
When the size of the Refcorp offering was announced last week.when-issued trading activity began.
that yields on all Treasury securities may rise this week.the market struggles to absorb the new supply.
that yields on all Treasury securities may rise this week.the market struggles to absorb the new supply.
Some economists believe that yields on all Treasury securities may rise this week as the market struggles to absorb the new supply.once the new securities are digested, they expect investors to focus on the weak economic data.
But they expect investors to focus on the weak economic data.the new securities are digested.
you don't care how much supply is coming.one thinks that rates are going down.
Most bond prices fell on concerns about this week's new supply and disappointment that stock prices didn't stage a sharp decline.Junk bond prices moved higher.
In early trading, Treasury bonds were higher on expectations that a surge in buying among Japanese investors would continue.providing support to Treasurys was hope that the stock market might see declines because of the expiration of some stock-index futures and options on indexes and individual stocks.
Those hopes were dashed.the stock market put in a relatively quiet performance.
Those hopes were dashed.the stock market put in a relatively quiet performance.
the new-issue market for junk bonds is likely to pick up following Chicago & North Western Acquisition Corp. 's $475 million junk bond offering Friday.they expect to price a $150 million, 12-year senior subordinated debenture offering by Imo Industries Inc. Traders expect the issue to be priced to yield 12%.
Today, for example, underwriters at Morgan Stanley & Co. said they expect to price a $150 million, 12-year senior subordinated debenture offering by Imo Industries Inc. Traders expect the issue to be priced to yield 12%..Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. said that a $150 million senior subordinated discount debenture issue by R.P. Scherer Drugs is expected by the end of the month.despite the big new-issue calendar, many junk bond investors and analysts are skeptical the deals will get done.
they are going to have an awful time with the rest.they had this much trouble with Chicago & North Western.
Last week, underwriters were forced to postpone three junk bond deals because of recent weakness in the market.pressure by big investors forced Donaldson Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. to sweeten Chicago & North Western's $475 million junk bond offering.
The coupon on the issue will be reset in one year at a rate that will give the issue a market value of 101.the maximum coupon rate on the issue when it is reset is 15.50%.
However, the maximum coupon rate on the issue is 15.50%.it is reset.
After hours of negotiating that stretched late into Thursday night, underwriters priced the 12-year issue of resettable senior subordinated debentures at par to yield 14.75%, higher than the 14.5% that had been expected.Debenture holders will receive the equivalent of 10% of the common stock in Chicago & North Western's parent company.
In the secondary, or resale, market, junk bonds closed 1/2 point higher.investment-grade corporate bonds fell 1/8 to 1/4 point.
Sotheby's provided the Dorrance family a guarantee of at least $100 million, and as much as $120 million, to obtain the collection.taking a greater than usual financial interest in the property to be sold.
The Dorrance estate, auctioned off in a series of sales held over four days, included porcelains, furniture and paintings.a handful of paintings from the Dorrance collection remain to be sold at Sotheby's annual old masters paintings auction in January.
to make refunds to directory advertisers.any misrepresentations are involved in the sale.
it obtained "firm" financing commitments from three major banks in regard to its offer for 50.3% of LIN Broadcasting Corp.the banks expressed confidence that the balance of the $4.5 billion bank facility will be committed within the next several weeks by a syndicate of foreign and domestic banks.
McCaw is offering to buy 22 million shares of LIN for $125 each in cash.The offer is in limbo.
The offer is in limbo, however.LIN has agreed to merge its cellular-phone businesses with BellSouth Corp.
Foreigners involved in prostitution will be punished according to the law.those with sexually transmitted diseases will be expelled from the country, according to the regulations.
The Communists nearly succeeded in eliminating prostitution.taking over in 1949.
The Communists nearly succeeded in eliminating prostitution after taking over in 1949.the practice has returned in recent years with the country's increased exposure to the outside world.
Japan agreed to enforce a decision by an international wildlife conference to ban all trade in ivory.Japan had said it might file a reservation against the ivory ban decided by ballot at the 103-nation United Nations Conference on International Trade in Endangered Species in Switzerland last week.
Italy should close the Leaning Tower of Pisa.it's a danger to tourists.
that the rise in alcohol consumption in East Germany had been halted.to reduce it further production and supply of other beverages, including fruit juices, should be stepped up.
Hong Kong has built a detention center for illegal immigrants from China.China has refused for the past two weeks to accept them back.
The dispute started.China, angry that Hong Kong had allowed dissident swimmer Yang Yang to flee to the U.S., halted the usual daily transfer of illegal immigrants caught in this British colony.
that the experiment be stopped.the intensity of the lights is reduced.
to be wary of making new loans to Mexico under the Brady plan.they're uncertain the Mexican economy will remain stable.
of making new loans to Mexico under the Brady plan.many small and medium-sized banks, and some larger ones, are likely to take one of the other two options open to them under the plan.
that most Japanese banks prefer the losses they'd suffer in either of the latter options to the risk of new lending.that since some larger banks have already taken loss provisions for loans to other Third World nations, further write-offs could be viewed as intolerable.
that further write-offs could be viewed as intolerable.some larger banks have already taken loss provisions for loans to other Third World nations.
that since some larger banks have already taken loss provisions for loans to other Third World nations, further write-offs could be viewed as intolerable.they may be forced into a no-win situation in which they make risky loans that they could have to write off later.
in which they make risky loans.that they could have to write off.
Robert Stein, president and chief executive officer, attributed the expected decline partly to the effects of a two-week strike last month at the company's Masillon, Ohio, bakeware facility.Softer-than-expected orders in early September played a role.
Ekco Group Inc., Nashua, N.H., expects to report that net income in the third quarter, ended Oct. 1, fell 50% to 60% from $2.1 million, or 11 cents a share, a year earlier.he is "reasonably confident" that earnings for the full year will exceed the $3.1 million, or 17 cents a share, in 1988.
August through October traditionally is the busiest season for the bakeware business.many retailers use the goods as autumn promotional items.
Woodstream's Victor-brand mousetraps and other pest-control products are "doing very well.its plastic storage-case products "are poised for growth.
Woodstream's Victor-brand mousetraps and other pest-control products are "doing very well," and its plastic storage-case products "are poised for growth.the unit's third segment, wildlife traps, is suffering from a "depressed market," and Ekco is seeking to sell that segment.
But the unit's third segment, wildlife traps, is suffering from a "depressed market.Ekco is seeking to sell that segment.
But the unit's third segment, wildlife traps, is suffering from a "depressed market.Ekco is seeking to sell that segment.
Prior to acquiring the housewares business, the company was known as Centronics Corp.; Centronics had been a maker of computer printers.Mr. Stein and other officers decided to sell that business after Japanese competitors grabbed a dominant share of the market.
but Mr. Stein and other officers decided to sell that business.Japanese competitors grabbed a dominant share of the market.
tighter operating controls have enabled Ekco to reduce inventory levels 25% to 30%; improve on-time delivery of orders to about 95% from around 70%; and to lower the number of labor hours required to produce a unit.By moving the design of new products in-house -- instead of contracting out the work -- the company has been able to come up with designs that can be manufactured more efficiently.
that Ekco may be interested in acquiring another company with revenue in the range of $75 million to $100 million.mass merchandisers increasingly want to rely on larger, and fewer, suppliers.
The imposition of austerity measures already had begun to pinch.the massacre in Tiananmen Square on June 4 and subsequent events tugged the belt far tighter.
Foreign lending has been virtually suspended since then, choking liquidity and hobbling many projects.Beijing has pulled back on domestic loans and subsidies, leaving many domestic buyers and export-oriented plants strapped for cash.
At first it attributed the slump to temporary business disruptions.when no orders were logged in August and September, manager Donald Lai became convinced that business would be bad for many months.
but manager Donald Lai became convinced that business would be bad for many months.no orders were logged in August and September.
but manager Donald Lai became convinced that business would be bad for many months.no orders were logged in August and September.
The consumer-products and light-industrial sectors are bearing the brunt of China's austerity measures.foreign companies such as Givaudan that deal with those industries are being hit the hardest.
The consumer-products and light-industrial sectors are bearing the brunt of China's austerity measures.foreign companies such as Givaudan that deal with those industries are being hit the hardest.
The consumer-products and light-industrial sectors are bearing the brunt of China's austerity measures, and foreign companies such as Givaudan that deal with those industries are being hit the hardest.in general, all foreign-trading companies are feeling the pinch.
The current trough is expected to be much deeper.Beijing has cut off domestic funds from factories for the first time.
The current trough is expected to be much deeper, because Beijing has cut off domestic funds from factories for the first time to slow inflation.the suspension of loans and export credits from foreign governments and institutions following the June killings have been a big setback.
Beijing's periodic clampdowns on imports have taught many trading companies that the best way to get through the drought is by helping China export.Nissho Iwai Corp., one of the biggest Japanese trading houses, now buys almost twice as many goods from China as it sells to that country.
Beijing's periodic clampdowns on imports have taught many trading companies that the best way to get through the drought is by helping China export.the strategy isn't helping much this time.
For a short time after June 4, it appeared that the trade picture would remain fairly bright..Many foreign trading offices in Hong Kong were swamped with telexes and telephone calls from Chinese trade officials urging them not to sever ties..Even the Bank of China, which normally took weeks to process letters of credit, was settling the letters at record speed to dispel rumors about the bank's financial health.when foreign traders tried to do business, they discovered that the eagerness of Chinese trade officials was just a smokescreen.
But they discovered that the eagerness of Chinese trade officials was just a smokescreen.foreign traders tried to do business.
Sitco had customarily tapped the Japanese bond market for funds.it can't do that any longer.
Business isn't any better on the provincial or municipal level, foreign traders say.Foreign traders say many of China's big infrastructural projects have been canceled or postponed because of the squeeze on domestic and foreign credit.
There are virtually no new projects.that means no new business for us.
There are virtually no new projects.that means no new business for us.
foreign exchange would still be tight.new lending resumes.
foreign exchange would still be tight.Beijing will likely try to rein in foreign borrowing.
Even when new lending resumes, foreign exchange would still be tight because Beijing will likely try to rein in foreign borrowing, which has grown between 30% and 40% in the past few years.foreign creditors are likely to be more cautious about extending new loans because China is nearing a peak repayment period as many loans start falling due in the next two to five years.
And foreign creditors are likely to be more cautious about extending new loans.China is nearing a peak repayment period.
because China is nearing a peak repayment period.many loans start falling due in the next two to five years.
because China is nearing a peak repayment period.many loans start falling due in the next two to five years.
These have been among the country's leading imports, particularly last year when there were shortages that led many traders to buy heavily and pay dearly.the shortages also spawned rampant speculation and spiraling prices.
that led many traders to buy heavily and pay dearly.But the shortages spawned rampant speculation and spiraling prices.
But the shortages also spawned rampant speculation and spiraling prices.Beijing can't cut back on such essential imports as raw materials for too long without hampering the country's export business.
The fund's purpose is to provide quick and adequate relief.the Glacier Bay case, the fund's first test, shows how easily the fund can be undermined.
that the liability fund would compensate them and seek reimbursement from the owner or operator of the vessel.claimants aren't paid within 90 days of a spill.
Law school teaches wonderful theory.it doesn't teach the nuts and bolts of practical lawyering.
In the past, associates learned the basics from senior lawyers who acted as mentors.these days, large firms hire as many as 30 new associates a year, and it's impossible to personally train everyone.
But these days, large firms hire as many as 30 new associates a year.it's impossible to personally train everyone.
The Hildebrandt course enables students to brush up on negotiation skills by role playing in simulated deals.Students are taught to return clients' phone calls immediately and to treat the support staff with respect.
that new associates have had some practical training.working on their cases.
Designs call for an L-shaped structure with a playground in the center..There will be recreation and movie rooms..Teens will be able to listen to music with headsets..Study halls, complete with reference materials, will be available.there will be a nurse's station and rooms for children to meet with social workers.
The bench will be lower.the judge seems less intimidating.
The bench will be lower so the judge seems less intimidating.walls will be painted in bright colors and covered with murals.
About 45,000 children in Los Angeles County are under court supervision.an average of 1,500 new children are added each month.
The panel is expected to add provisions waiving restrictions on the use of federal highway funds.and may shift money within the package to bolster the share for the Small Business Administration.
We will support it, we will thank him.we will augment it where appropriate.
Such other amounts will be made available subsequently as required.the new obligations "shall not be a charge against the Budget Act, Gramm-Rudman-Hollings, or other ceilings.
We aren't selling bonds right now.I don't think it will affect the value of our existing bonds.
it lowered the ratings on $75 million of the holding company's convertible subordinated Eurodebentures to B-3 from B-1.it lowered the ratings of $70 million of Pinnacle's MeraBank thrift unit long-term deposits to B-3 from B-2, and on its subordinated debt to Ca from Caa.
Where '60s dropouts professed to scorn middle-class life.ambitious yuppies hoped to leave it far behind as they scaled the upper reaches of success.
to leave it far behind.they scaled the upper reaches of success.
After all there were housewives with Nikons and degrees from cooking schools in France who would kill for her job.Nora and Malcolm feel trapped.
that brings little satisfaction or security.that they know they should be grateful to do.
Malcolm faces bankruptcy and an IRS audit.Nora finds an extra $30,000 in her bank account, suddenly increasing her available funds some fifteenfold.
her life is further complicated by the reappearance of an old flame, David, a film critic and actor who always seems to be just on the brink of stardom.she is wondering whether to live it up, and do something even more dramatic, say get married.
The humor of the story owes much to the fact that no hearts (even the characters' own) are likely to bleed for the plight of health-food eaters.readers may well feel the pangs of recognition.
In any case, the foundering middle classes aren't the only ones in trouble.whose troubles provide material for fiction.
Patrician, dynamic Scott Thatcher, founder and head of PegaSys, initially finds the takeover threat risible.as he and his skilled team soon discover, they're up against two factors they hadn't counted on: first, a business climate in which a failing company with few assets and many debts can borrow against the assets of the successful company it hopes to acquire in order to finance the takeover; second, that standing behind AIW is a sinister consortium of much bigger, shadier and shrewder foreign interests secretly providing the money and muscle for the deal.
Mr. Garber manages to invest this tale of financial wars with the colorful characters and fast-paced action of a suspense novel.like a spy or mystery story, this novel has strong elements of allegory, as the good and evil forces battle it out.
And like a spy or mystery story, this novel has strong elements of allegory.the good and evil forces battle it out.
Mr. Garber depicts these moral qualities with the broad brush strokes of a satire that occasionally descends to the realm of cliched caricatures.the heavy-handedness of the satire also can be effective in a book like this.
Standard-issue portraits of flaky Californians, snobbish homosexuals and Neanderthal union leaders undermine the force of the author's perceptions.Yet the heavy-handedness of the satire can be effective in a book like this.
we would not much care whether his schemes were defeated, and would not be so diverted in the process.the head of AIW were not portrayed as an utterly contemptible, malicious dolt.
High-definition television promises to be the TV of tomorrow.it is a natural multibillion-dollar market.
not everyone here is ready to give up.major U.S. manufacturers have all but ceded the main segment of that future business to Japan.
Large U.S. companies are interested in other segments of the HDTV business, such as signal-processing and broadcast equipment.except for Zenith Electronics Corp. and International Business Machines Corp., which is collaborating with Toshiba on computer displays, they are poorly positioned to exploit advances in large panels.
because of their strong positions in patents.because the prize is still there to be seized.
The small U.S. firms are persisting.and the prize is still there to be seized.
the U.S. industry won't have a chance.it gets more help.
Thus far, almost all of the basic technology relating to high-definition television has come from U.S. laboratories.Japanese companies are poised to snatch the technology and put it to commercial use.
In the 1970s, Mr. Brody helped develop the first display panels based on active-matrix liquid crystals at Westinghouse Electric Corp. 's research labs in Pittsburgh.In 1979 Westinghouse abandoned the project along with its stake in advanced television.
He has a claim to the right to commercialize the Westinghouse patents.that those patents are being infringed by a number of Japanese producers.
We don't see a domestic source for some of our {HDTV} requirements.that's a source of concern.
We don't see a domestic source for some of our {HDTV} requirements, and that's a source of concern.DARPA is trying to keep the industry interested in developing large display panels by doling out research funds.
The Navy is ordering displays for its Aegis cruisers.the Army wants smaller versions for its Abrams battle tanks.
the Pentagon justifies its help on national-security grounds.The Commerce Department is trying to encourage HDTV because of the benefits that could spin off to the semiconductor and computer industries.
The industry will create industrial products such as displays for work stations and medical diagnostic equipment.it acquires a mass consumer market.
the small firms simply would prefer more DARPA funds.some HDTV advocates are calling for other forms of aid, such as antitrust relief for research consortia.
Each claims to possess the right technology and wants just a bit more money to make it commercial.They want U.S. trade policy to reflect the Pentagon and Commerce department's concern over their future.
the small firms simply would prefer more DARPA funds They also want U.S. trade policy to reflect the Pentagon and Commerce department's concern over their future.they want the U.S. to help them sell overseas.
he has to pay tariffs as high as 15% to sell his display panels in Japan and South Korea.panels from those countries enter the U.S. duty-free.
which last year merged its North Sea oil and gas operations with those of Calor Group PLC.which owns 40% of Calor.
it hadn't held any discussions with SHV.that "no deal of any nature is in contemplation.
The official, John DeVillars, asked Clean Harbors for more information.ruling on a permit for the site.
Generally, regulators haven't announced enforcement actions in the past.that before the law took effect Aug. 9, it banned another "key Vision Banc insider" from insured financial institutions.
that it banned another "key Vision Banc insider" from insured financial institutions.the law took effect Aug. 9.
Vision Banc was placed in government conservatorship in March.it operates under the control of the Resolution Trust Corp., the agency created to sell or liquidate insolvent thrifts.
The OTS didn't say specifically why the action was taken against Ms. Garman.it said examiners found a variety of insider dealings at the thrift, including "extraordinary loan commissions" paid to a firm associated with Vision Banc officials, and loans diverted through borrowers back to the thrift officials.
how to protect these returns.and reach a little for additional gains.
Growth stocks may be as big as Philip Morris or medium-sized such as Circuit City Stores.their common characteristic is a history of increasing profits on the order of at least 15% to 20% a year.
The period when growth stocks should be performing well is when their earnings are growing at a superior rate to the general level of corporate profits.Growth stocks are attractive in periods of market volatility.
which many investors and analysts expect in the weeks ahead.everybody tries to discern where the economy is heading.
when the industrial average rolled through huge ranges.investors flocked to the shares of companies with proven earnings records, which became known as the "nifty 50.
and investors flocked to the shares of companies with proven earnings records, which became known as the "nifty 50.they will again.
that investment companies using computers to identify companies with earnings "momentum" will climb on the growth-stock bandwagon.the overall corporate earnings outlook deteriorates further.
Cabanne Smith, president of a money management company bearing his name, predicts that investment companies using computers to identify companies with earnings "momentum" will climb on the growth-stock bandwagon as the overall corporate earnings outlook deteriorates further.He thinks foreign investors, who are showing signs of more discriminate investing, will join the pursuit and pump up prices.
who still says, "We expect the Dow average {to be at} 3000 by mid-1990.Carmine Grigoli, chief market strategist for First Boston foresees a sluggish economy in the meantime.
the Dow average {to be at} 3000 by mid-1990.a sluggish economy.
which reported a 30% earnings decline in the third quarter.which last week announced a $1 billion buy-back of its shares.
they are suggesting that the rate of return on competing internal projects is below" returns on the stock.they are buying back stock at 10 times earnings.
Big cyclical companies are using "all the tricks they can to stabilize earnings," says Mr. Sloan.not all strategists or money managers are ready to throw in the towel completely on cyclicals.
Growth stocks may underperform cyclical stocks next year.the Federal Reserve begins to let interest rates drift sufficiently lower to boost the economy.
Traders anticipated a volatile session due to the October expiration of stock-index futures and options, and options on individual stocks.there were fewer price swings than expected.
Buy order imbalances on several big stocks were posted by the New York Stock Exchange.block trading desks and money managers made a concerted effort to meet the imbalances with stock to sell.
But block trading desks and money managers made a concerted effort to meet the imbalances with stock to sell.the Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted in narrow ranges in the final hour of trading, and closed 5.94 higher to 2689.14.
Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index gained 0.03 to 347.16, the Dow Jones Equity Market Index fell 0.02 to 325.50.the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 0.05 to 192.12.
when the average rose 88.12 points.market players snapped up blue-chip issues and shunned the broad market.
The S&P 500 rose 4%, the Dow Jones Equity Market index gained 3.7%.the New York Stock Exchange composite index added 3.5%.
USAir Group rose 1 3/4 to 43 1/4 on 1.5 million shares amid speculation about a possible takeover proposal from investor Marvin Davis.most other airline issues took their cue from UAL.
USAir Group rose 1 3/4 to 43 1/4 on 1.5 million shares amid speculation about a possible takeover proposal from investor Marvin Davis.most other airline issues took their cue from UAL.
who had pursued UAL.dropping his bid Wednesday.
Unocal fell 1 1/2 to 52 1/4.Burlington Resources declined 7/8 to 45 5/8.
Paper and forest-products stocks declined.Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. lowered investment ratings on a number of issues in the two sectors, based on a forecast that pulp prices will fall sharply.
Paper and forest-products stocks declined.Smith Barney, Harris Upham & Co. lowered investment ratings on a number of issues in the two sectors, based on a forecast that pulp prices will fall sharply.
International Paper dropped 5/8 to 51, Georgia-Pacific fell 1 3/4 to 56 1/4, Stone Container tumbled 1 1/2 to 26 5/8, Great Northern Nekoosa went down 5/8 to 38 3/8.Weyerhaeuser lost 7/8 to 28 1/8.
International Paper dropped 5/8 to 51, Georgia-Pacific fell 1 3/4 to 56 1/4, Stone Container tumbled 1 1/2 to 26 5/8, Great Northern Nekoosa went down 5/8 to 38 3/8.Weyerhaeuser lost 7/8 to 28 1/8.
MassMutual Corporate Investors fell 3 to 29.declaring a quarterly dividend of 70 cents a share, down from 95 cents a share.
In March, the group disclosed it held a 7.2% stake in Anacomp for investment purposes.It said it had had and would continue to have discussions with Anacomp's management concerning its investment.
Home Beneficial Corp., Richmond, Va., said it contracted to sell its 50% interest in a Richmond-area shopping mall to a buyer that wasn't identified.The company said it will adopt new accounting standards in the first quarter.
Following is a weekly listing of unadited net asset values of publicly traded investment fund shares.shown is the closing listed market price or a dealer-to-dealer asked price of each fund's shares, with the percentage of difference.
that the price is "unfair and grossly inadequate.that the defendants are seeking to ensure a "lockup" of the purchase of Unitel, thereby discouraging other bids.
to ensure a "lockup" of the purchase of Unitel.discouraging other bids.
The arbs may recoup some of their paper losses.the UAL deal gets patched up again.
The arbs may recoup some of their paper losses if the UAL deal gets patched up again.the question faced by investors is: What is UAL stock worth.
That's.airline earnings, like those of auto makers, have been subject to the cyclical ups-and-downs of the economy.
that, despite the huge drop in the stock, UAL hasn't returned to the level at which it could attract buying by institutions solely on the basis of earnings.anyone buying the stock now is betting on some special transaction such as a recapitalization or takeover, and must do so using some guesswork about the likelihood of such an event.
that the UAL pilots and management can put together a bid "in the $225 area.that it could take three to four months to close.
that UAL's board might hold out for a new bid much closer to the original level.it means that the management goes back to running the company for a while and lets things return to normal.
By that logic, the closing of a deal could be much further away than three to four months.the eventual price might be higher.
The pilots have a strong financing tool in their willingness to cut their annual compensation by $200 million, and to commit $200 million from their retirement funds.On Friday, they persuaded the UAL flight attendants to join them.
The pilots have a strong financing tool in their willingness to cut their annual compensation by $200 million, and to commit $200 million from their retirement funds.that banks aren't likely to lend the almost $5 billion that would be necessary for a takeover even at a lower price without someone putting up a hefty wad of cash -- probably even greater than the 17% in cash put up by investors in the leveraged takeover of Northwest Airlines parent NWA Corp. in July.
That way someone else has an even stronger motivation to make sure the deal is going to work.they would be losing their money before the banks lost theirs.
because they would be losing their money.the banks lost theirs.
Banks want to see someone putting up real cash at risk, that is, subordinate to the bank debt in any deal.Banks want to be able to call someone on the telephone to fix a problem with a deal that goes bad -- preferably someone other than a union leader.
One way out of that dilemma could be a partial recapitalization in which the pilots would wind up sharing the value of their concessions with public shareholders..The pilots could borrow against the value of their concessions, using the proceeds to buy back stock from the public and give themselves the majority control they have been seeking.it isn't clear that banks would lend sufficient money to deliver a big enough price to shareholders.
First Boston's estimates had been higher.management supplied a 1989 projection.
Using estimates of the company's future earnings under a variety of scenarios, First Boston estimated UAL's value at $248 to $287 a share if its future labor costs conform to Wall Street projections; $237 to $275 if the company reaches a settlement with pilots similar to one at NWA; $98 to $121 under an adverse labor settlement, and $229 to $270 under a pilot contract imposed by the company following a strike.using liquidation value assuming the sale of all UAL assets, First Boston estimated the airline is worth $253 to $303 a share.
Unfortunately, all those estimates came.airline industry fundamentals deteriorated during the past month.
anybody who's sophisticated getting his name associated with this mess.the moving parts stop moving.
Some analysts don't expect a quick revival of any takeover by the pilots.the arbs are bleeding.
Eastern Enterprises, bolstered by improved tonnages in its marine-shipping unit, had a narrower third-quarter net loss of $1.1 million, or five cents a share.results for the third quarter, usually a money-losing one because of the seasonality of the gas business, were aided by higher gas sales and the May 1989 acquisition of Water Products Company.
continuing its rapid growth.other computer companies falter.
continuing its rapid growth.other computer companies falter.
by adopting an open set of standards and introducing new hardware and software to link different systems.Convex recently agreed to use Posix, a standard for the computer language called UNIX.
Posix is one of three or four versions of UNIX.it is increasingly required by the federal government as it tries to standardize its computer systems.
but it is increasingly required by the federal government.it tries to standardize its computer systems.
but it is increasingly required by the federal government.it tries to standardize its computer systems.
you can't get out.you get in.
They want a lobster trap -- once you get in, you can't get out.the customer doesn't want that.
A Saatchi spokesman declined to comment about Interpublic.the spokesman confirmed that Saatchi has received several inquiries from companies interested in acquiring its Campbell-Mithun and Rowland units.
The offers come.Saatchi is struggling through the most troubled period in its 19-year history.
Takeover speculation has been rife, its consulting business is on the block.its largest shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management, has said it's been approached by third parties regarding a possible restructuring.
Analysts have continually lowered their earnings estimates for the company.their outlook, at least for the short term, is bleak.
In the midst of the current turmoil, Saatchi is attempting to shore up its ad businesses..It named a new chief executive officer, former IMS International head Robert Louis-Dreyfus..It rebuffed an offer by Carl Spielvogel, head of Saatchi's Backer Spielvogel Bates unit, to lead a management buy-out of all or part of Saatchi.last week, people close to Saatchi said Maurice Saatchi and his brother, Charles, would lead a buy-out if a hostile bid emerged.
Maurice Saatchi and his brother, Charles, would lead a buy-out.a hostile bid emerged.
Maurice Saatchi and his brother, Charles, would lead a buy-out if a hostile bid emerged.Saatchi's troubles have only whipped up interest among outsiders interested in picking off pieces of its ad businesses.
its smaller businesses are quite attractive.Saatchi's major agency networks -- Backer Spielvogel and Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising -- would be difficult for any ad firm to buy because of potential client conflicts.
While Saatchi's major agency networks -- Backer Spielvogel and Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising -- would be difficult for any ad firm to buy because of potential client conflicts, its smaller businesses are quite attractive.Campbell-Mithun-Esty has had big problems at its New York office, but offers strong offices in other areas of the country, including Minneapolis and Chicago.
they wouldn't be nearly as onerous as with Saatchi's other agencies.there would be some client conflicts.
That would would make it appealing to a network such as Interpublic that already has a healthy New York presence.Campbell-Mithun would be a sizable addition to an agency network.
Campbell-Mithun-Esty, for example, has had big problems at its New York office, but offers strong offices in other areas of the country, including Minneapolis and Chicago.Rowland has expanded aggressively, and now ranks as the fifth-largest U.S. public relations firm, according to O'Dwyer's Directory of Public Relations Firms.
Campbell-Mithun-Esty, for example, has had big problems at its New York office, but offers strong offices in other areas of the country, including Minneapolis and Chicago.Rowland has expanded aggressively, and now ranks as the fifth-largest U.S. public relations firm, according to O'Dwyer's Directory of Public Relations Firms.
which has the Mercedes account.which has been attempting to buy itself back.
Among other things, the memo contends that Young & Rubicam gave false assurances that the investigation wouldn't uncover any information that would "embarrass the government of Jamaica or the Jamaica Tourist Board.It contends that Young & Rubicam never told the tourist board about its relationship with Ad Ventures, a Jamaican firm hired by the agency.
The memo attempts to remove the tourist board as far as possible from the agency, which pleaded innocent to the charges.The memo chastises the agency for the timing of its announcement Thursday that it would no longer handle the $5 million to $6 million account.
it will continue work.a new agency is chosen.
American Suzuki Motor Corp., Brea, Calif., awarded its estimated $10 million to $30 million account to Asher/Gould, Los Angeles.participating in the finals was Los Angeles agency Hakuhodo Advertising America.
the agency is holding "conversations" about acquiring Zwiren Collins Karo & Trusk, a midsized Chicago agency.a deal isn't yet close to being completed.
to create the new position.The company reassigned several executive responsibilities.
with "Nobel laureate" appended to one's name.to have the phrase, "under investigation for scientific fraud attached to his name.
Both of Dr. Baltimore's public faces have been on view the past few weeks.he was under consideration to succeed Joshua Lederberg as head of the prestigious Rockefeller research institution.
the Rockefeller scientists were no doubt discomfited by Dr. Baltimore's unflattering public opinion of this congressional patron.Mr. Dingell has a special interest in NIH and the institutions that receive its funding.
John Dingell demagogues a David Baltimore, animal-rights activists do $3.5 million of damage to labs at the U.Cal-Davis, Meryl Streep decries the horrors of chemistry on talk shows, Jeremy Rifkin files lawsuits in federal court to thwart biotech experiments.Dutch-elm-disease researcher Gary Strobel's own colleagues at Montana State denounce him for "violating" EPA rules.
that the anti-science movement in this country isn't their concern.that a David Baltimore could have somehow placated a John Dingell.
that today it is also about power.their work is primarly about establishing new knowledge or doing good.
their work is primarly about establishing new knowledge or doing good.that today it is about power.
In a media-linked world, scientists may earn wide praise and even Nobels for their work.they also attract the attention of people who wish to gain control over the content, funding and goals of that work.
In a media-linked world, scientists may earn wide praise and even Nobels for their work.but they attract the attention of people who wish to gain control over the content, funding and goals of that work.
his fellow scientists would do well to recognize what is fundamentally at stake, and offer their public support.a David Baltimore -- or the next target -- decides it is better to stand up to these forces.
I am surprised that he neglected other errors that, for some of us, strike close to home.welcoming Nicholas McInnes's Sept. 18 letter offering corrections to your "World-Wide Tax Revolution" table (editorial page, Aug. 29).
it intends to fire a veto at it.the White House spots one.
that it's a duck.it looks like a duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck.
Ducks are this season's word for new taxes, under OMB Director Richard Darman's formulation that "if it looks like a duck, walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it's a duck." George Bush is quite clear: No new ducks.what about all those non-duck ducks flapping over Washington.
The bill gets signed into law.then the administration watches helplessly, wondering where all the "unexpected" costs came from.
The bill gets signed into law.and the administration watches helplessly.
The Bush White House is breeding non-duck ducks the same way the Nixon White House did.Consider the very fat fowl known as federalized child care.
They'd determine where parents could store their kids during the day.they'd regulate the storage facilities.
The initial costs are said to be in the $2 billion a year range.that's only the beginning.
The administration claims that its Clean Air bill will cost businesses between $14 billion and $19 billion annually.economist Michael Evans estimates that the costs for firms will actually be in the $60 billion a year range.
that its Clean Air bill will cost businesses between $14 billion and $19 billion annually, but economist Michael Evans estimates that the costs for firms will actually be in the $60 billion a year range.The House bill distorts economic efficiency in all sorts of perverse ways.
The House bill also distorts economic efficiency in all sorts of perverse ways.the administration proposal imposes extremely tough emissions standards on new power plants.
For example, the administration proposal imposes extremely tough emissions standards on new power plants.instead of building more efficient modern plants, utilities stick scrubbers on the old plants.
For example, the administration proposal imposes extremely tough emissions standards on new power plants.The bill imposes the California auto-emissions standards on all cars nationwide.
The bill also imposes the California auto-emissions standards on all cars nationwide.a car registered in Big Sky, Montana, needed to be as clean as one driven in Los Angeles.
Nobody knows how many billions of dollars the Americans With Disabilities Act will cost.nobody knows what the bill entails.
Judges will write the real bill.suits roll through the courts.
All this was recognized and documented in the succeeding years by economists.Running for President in 1980 and 1988, George Bush persuasively diagnosed the economic stagnation of the 1970s.
George Bush also persuasively diagnosed the economic stagnation of the 1970s.during last year's campaign, the entire nation constantly heard Mr. Bush tout his accomplishments as head of the Task Force on Regulatory Relief.
Government continues to inhibit the productivity of our citizenry and the international competitiveness of American business," the vice president declared.he was head of the task force.
In fact, during last year's campaign, the entire nation constantly heard Mr. Bush tout his accomplishments as head of the Task Force on Regulatory Relief.with the impending passage of these new programs, Mr. Bush will surely be sending many people hurtling back into the regulatory thicket that he had helped cut back.
By 1986, the number of federal regulators was down to about 103,000.it turned up.
Then it turned up.by one estimate the number will be up to about 109,000 regulators by next year.
Holding the dam on taxes is the most important task of the Bush presidency.We would have thought by now that there was a significant core of people involved in government life who understood that direct taxation isn't the only way to slow down an economy.
What is even more ironic is that all over the world nations are learning that well-intentioned public programs often backfire.while they are unloading these burdens, the United States is close to creating three more big ones.
But the United States is close to creating three more big ones.they are unloading these burdens.
But the United States is close to creating three more big ones.they are unloading these burdens.
to take another sharp dive.trade figures for September, due for release tomorrow, fail to show a substantial improvement from July and August's near-record deficits.
Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson's restated commitment to a firm monetary policy has helped to prevent a freefall in sterling over the past week.analysts reckon underlying support for sterling has been eroded by the chancellor's failure to announce any new policy measures in his Mansion House speech last Thursday.
there could be an awful lot of pressure.there is another bad trade number.
Forecasts for the trade figures range widely.few economists expect the data to show a very marked improvement from the #2 billion ($3.2 billion) deficit in the current account reported for August.
there is no sign that Britain's manufacturing industry is transforming itself to boost exports..At the same time, he remains fairly pessimistic about the outlook for imports, given continued high consumer and capital goods inflows.he believes that a reduction in raw material stockbuilding by industry could lead to a sharp drop in imports.
he believes that a reduction in raw material stockbuilding by industry could lead to a sharp drop in imports..Combined with at least some rebound in exports after August's unexpected decline, the deficit could narrow to as little as #1.3 billion.who forecasts a #1.3 billion current account gap.
that the currency won't advance much.the trade figures are bullish for sterling.
that the currency won't advance much.investors will want to see further evidence of the turnaround before adjusting positions.
because investors will want to see further evidence of the turnaround.adjusting positions.
that the currency won't advance much.No one will want to go into the trade figures without a flat position" in the pound.
Forecasts for the trade figures range widely, but few economists expect the data to show a very marked improvement from the #2 billion ($3.2 billion) deficit in the current account reported for August.overall evidence on the economy remains fairly clouded.
Forecasts for the trade figures range widely, but few economists expect the data to show a very marked improvement from the #2 billion ($3.2 billion) deficit in the current account reported for August.overall evidence on the economy remains fairly clouded.
that a further slowdown can be expected.the impact of the last rise in interest rates earlier this month takes effect.
U.K. base rates are at their highest level in eight years.that the U.K. economy is slowing that quickly.
the data show the economy "is still quite strong.suggestions that much of the spending went on services rather than consumer goods should reduce fears of more import rises.
to increase interest rates again.necessary.
that a substantial slowdown does take place.that sterling doesn't decline further.
that rates will be pushed higher.necessary.
there is little holding sterling firm at the moment other than Mr. Lawson's promise that rates will be pushed higher if necessary.any further drop in the government's popularity could swiftly make this promise sound hollow.
that the government will be forced to increase rates to 16%.the pound falls much below 2.90 marks.
The dollar posted gains in quiet trading.concerns about equities abated.
The dollar posted gains in quiet trading.concerns about equities abated.
Late in the New York trading day, the dollar was quoted at 1.8578 marks, up from 1.8470 marks late Thursday in New York.The U.S. currency was changing hands at 142.43 yen, up from 141.70 yen in New York late Thursday.
the offer is subject to the signing of a merger agreement by no later than Oct. 31.the approval is contingent upon obtaining satisfactory financing.
East Rock Partners Limited Partnership said it proposed to acquire A.P. Green Industries Inc. for $40 a share.East Rock said in the filing that it boosted its stake in A.P. Green to 8.7%.
Demand has caught up with the supply of certain types of freight transportation.rates are starting to move up" at a rate "close to or slightly more than the inflation rate.
Demand has caught up with the supply of certain types of freight transportation.rates are starting to move up" at a rate "close to or slightly more than the inflation rate.
Carriers could use their equipment more efficiently, leading to overcapacity they were eager to fill..Shippers cut about $35 billion from their annual, inter-city truck and rail costs, to about $150 billion, or about 6.4% of gross national product, down from 8% of GNP in 1981.with much of the inefficiency squeezed out of the freight-transport system, rising costs are likely to be reflected directly in higher freight rates.
to see real freight-rate increases.carriers replace equipment, pay higher fuel costs and pay more for labor.
Consolidated Freightways plans to raise its rates 5.3% late this year or early next year.at least two competitors have announced similar increases.
Truckers are "trying to send signals that they need to stop the bloodletting, forget about market share and go for higher rates.shippers are getting the feeling that they have played one trucker off against another as much as they can.
Air-freight carriers raised their rates for U.S. products going across the Pacific to Asia by about 20% earlier this month.Japan Air Lines said it plans to boost its rates a further 25% over the next two years.
Ship companies carrying bulk commodities, such as oil, grain, coal and iron ore, have been able to increase their rates in the last couple of years.ship lines carrying containers are also trying to raise their rates.
Ship companies carrying bulk commodities, such as oil, grain, coal and iron ore, have been able to increase their rates in the last couple of years.And ship lines carrying containers are trying to raise their rates.
the chairman of the panel said: "Go ahead and tell us what happened..We may ask questions as you go along, or we may wait until the end.the three members of the court introduced themselves.
We may ask questions.you go along.
We may ask questions as you go along.we may wait until the end.
the court members asked many questions.he was through.
the court members asked many questions.the chairman said they would like to hear his manager's side and talk to witnesses.
Bob Stone is a fictional name.the incident described is real.
The court is called the Management Appeals Committee, or just "MAC.it is likely to hear a couple of dozen cases a year.
Alter some details of this example.it could be taking place today at Federal Express in Memphis, the Defense and Underseas Systems divisions of Honeywell in Minneapolis, a General Electric plant in Columbia, Md., or a number of other companies.
Alter some details of this example.it could be taking place today at Federal Express in Memphis, the Defense and Underseas Systems divisions of Honeywell in Minneapolis, a General Electric plant in Columbia, Md., or a number of other companies.
it is one of the fastest developing trends in industry.corporate due process is practiced today in few companies -- perhaps 40 to 60.
It must be able to handle most of the complaints that cannot be solved in the trenches by managers and their subordinates.the company court or adjudicators will be inundated with cases.
See that they know company personnel policy backwards and forwards.it is the "law" governing company courts and adjudicators.
Coach them in handling complaints.they can resolve problems immediately.
to accept reversals as a fact of business life.in a good due-process system they are bound to happen.
who acts first as a fact-finder.and switches hats and arbitrates the facts.
It won't do any good for anybody.employees know about it.
Most managements hesitate to go all out in advertising their due-process systems for fear of encouraging cranks and chronic soreheads to file complaints.they make sure at a minimum that their systems are described in their employee handbooks and talked up by personnel specialists.
Winners outpaced losers, 572 to 368.181 issues remained unchanged.
Investors, especially dealers, don't want to hold a position over the weekend.that the trading mood remained positive through the afternoon session.
In turmoil caused by the previous Friday's plunge in New York stocks, the Nikkei marked a sharp 647.33-point fall Monday.the Nikkei fell an overall 1.8% in value that day compared with Wall Street's far sharper 6.9% drop on Oct. 13.
to regain confidence gradually.they spent more time on analyzing factors that caused the Friday plunge and realized these problems were unique to New York stocks and not directly related to Tokyo.
to regain confidence gradually.they spent more time on analyzing factors that caused the Friday plunge and realized these problems were unique to New York stocks and not directly related to Tokyo.
The Nikkei continued to gain for the rest of the week, adding 1017.69 points in four days.further major advances on the Nikkei aren't foreseen this week by market observers.
how the U.S. government will decide on interest rates.how the dollar will be stabilized.
Sapporo gained 80 to 1,920.Kirin added 60 to 2,070.
Kajima advanced 40 to 2,120.Ohbayashi added 50 to 1,730.
Fujisawa added 80 to 2,010.Mochida advanced 230 to 4,400.
The index finished 2.4% under its close of 2233.9 the previous Friday.it recouped some of the sharp losses staged early last week on the back of Wall Street's fall.
although it recouped some of the sharp losses staged early last week on the back of Wall Street's fall.London was weak throughout Friday's trading on what dealers attributed to generally thin interest ahead of the weekend and this week's potentially important U.K. trade figures for September.
The FT-SE 100 largely remained within an 11-point range establshed within the first hour of trading.it eased to an intraday low late in the session when a flurry of program selling pushed Wall Street lower.
that market-makers were largely sidelined.aggressively supporting the market Thursday in their quest to cover internal shortages of FT-SE 100 shares.
British Airways rose initially.announcing its withdrawal from the UAL deal.
In other active shares, Trusthouse Forte shed 10 to 294 on volume of 6.4 million shares after a Barclays De Zoete Wedd downgrading.Hillsdown Holdings, a food products concern, was boosted 2 to 271.
while Hillsdown Holdings, a food products concern, was boosted 2 to 271.it disclosed it would seek shareholder approval to begin share repurchases.
to notify foreign dictators.it knows of coup plans likely to endanger their lives.
The existence of the guidelines has become known.President Bush disclosed them privately to seven Republican senators at a White House meeting last Monday.
The existence of the guidelines has become known.President Bush disclosed them privately to seven Republican senators at a White House meeting last Monday.
No notification was ever considered.the U.S. didn't think the coup plotters intended to kill Mr. Noriega, but merely sought to imprison him.
What's more, both administration and congressional officials hint that the notification requirement is likely to be dropped from the guidelines on coup attempts that are being rewritten by the panel and the White House.the disclosure of the guidelines is already being interpreted on Capitol Hill as an unfair effort to pressure Congress.
that "a text torn out of context is a pretext.it is unfair for those in the White House who are leaking to present the evidence in a selective fashion.
that "a text torn out of context is a pretext.it is unfair for those in the White House who are leaking to present the evidence in a selective fashion.
the committee couldn't defend itself by making the documents public.that would violate classification rules.
Sen. Boren said the committee couldn't defend itself by making the documents public because that would violate classification rules.the chairman and other committee members stressed that the notification guideline wasn't imposed on the White House by a meddling Congress.
that the notification guideline wasn't imposed on the White House by a meddling Congress.it grew out of talks about coup-planning in Panama that were initiated by the administration in July 1988 and stretched into last October.
The guideline wasn't a law, but a joint interpretation of how the U.S. might operate during foreign coups in light of the longstanding presidential order banning a U.S. role in assassinations.yesterday the administration and Congress were still differing on what had been agreed to.
notification was required.the U.S. "gets wind" of somebody else's coup plans that seem likely to endanger a dictator's life.
notification was required even if the U.S. "gets wind" of somebody else's coup plans that seem likely to endanger a dictator's life.the rule only covered coup plans directly involving the U.S.
that it may have led to hesitation and uncertainty on the part of U.S. intelligence and military operatives in Panama.the notification guideline wasn't carried out in this month's coup attempt.
The issue came to a head last year.the Reagan administration had sought unsuccessfully to win committee approval of funding for new Panama coup efforts.
The issue came to a head last year partly because the Reagan administration had sought unsuccessfully to win committee approval of funding for new Panama coup efforts.the need for guidelines on coups and assassinations was partly spurred by a White House desire to avoid nasty overseas surprises during the election campaign.
the intelligence committees can exercise influence over its interpretation.the assassination ban is a White House order that Congress never voted on.
The administration has reacted to criticism that it mishandled the latest coup attempt by seeking to blame Congress for restrictions the White House said have hampered its freedom of action.last week Mr. Webster's two top CIA deputies said congressional curbs hadn't hampered the spy agency's role in the coup attempt in Panama.
congressional curbs hadn't hampered the spy agency's role in the coup attempt in Panama.the administration's criticisms appeared to have made some headway with Sens..Boren and Cohen after their Oct. 12 meeting with the president.
The three men agreed to rewrite the guidelines, without changing the basic assassination ban, to clear up any ambiguities that may have hampered U.S. encouragement of coups against anti-American leaders.The new argument over the notification guideline could sour any atmosphere of cooperation that existed.
MUTUAL FUNDS ARRIVED IN THE U.S. during the Roaring Twenties.they didn't boom until the money market fund was created in the 1970s.
but they didn't boom.the money market fund was created in the 1970s.
money market funds also helped rewrite banking regulations.creating a vehicle for investors.
Besides creating a vehicle for investors.money market funds helped rewrite banking regulations.
It arrived.the regulator handling such operations was retiring.
it was priced at $10 a share.Dreyfus started the first advertising-backed retail fund in February 1974.
Dreyfus moved to the $1 price.the SEC set standards -- an average 120-day maturity of high-grade paper -- that are still the rule.
Eventually, the money funds' success forced relaxation of curbs on bank interest rates to allow banks to offer competing yields.The new instrument introduced many to the industry.
The owners of the defense and aerospace concern, which include three regional states, several industrial companies and banks, met Friday to discuss the final terms of the transaction, in which Daimler-Benz will acquire 50.01% of.agreement aparently couldn't be reached because of opposition from the states of Hamburg and Bremen, which are demanding more influence over the German Airbus operations and a better guarantee against job losses in the troubled Northern German region.
The two states and the state of Bavaria still hold a majority in MBB.their stake will fall to around 30% after Daimler-Benz acquires its stake in the concern.
but their stake will fall to around 30%.Daimler-Benz acquires its stake in the concern.
The consensus view on real GNP, the total value of the nation's output of goods and services adjusted for inflation, calls for a 2.3% gain, down from the second quarter's 2.5%, according to MMS International, a unit of McGraw-Hill Inc., New York.inflation, as measured by the GNP deflator in Thursday's report, is expected to rise only 3.5%, down from 4.6% in the second quarter.
it could serve as an impetus to the fixed-income markets to lower their rates.that gets people excited.
The stock market is sick.profits are crumbling.
The stock market is sick because profits are crumbling," says Michael K. Evans, president of Evans Economics Inc., Washington.Mr. Evans expects the hurricane and the earthquake "to take a hunk out of fourth-quarter GNP.
His estimate of 3.3% for third-quarter GNP is higher than the consensus.he believes current inventories aren't as low as official figures indicate.
In August, personal income rose 0.4%.personal consumption increased 0.9%.
In May, Mr. Brierley's stake shrank to 8.7%.ranging between 9% and 11% for much of the previous year.
he spurned the advice of trendy management consultants.Rune Andersson set out to revive flagging Swedish conglomerate Trelleborg AB in the early 1980s.
telling us we should concentrate on high technology, electronics or biotechnology, and get out of mature basic industries.under its 45-year-old president, Trelleborg moved aggressively into those unfashionable base industries.
first strengthening its existing rubber and plastics division.adding mining as well as building and construction materials.
It was a gutsy move for a little-known executive, fired after only two months as president of his previous company.going against the grain has never bothered Mr. Andersson.
you don't have much competition.the whole market thinks what you're doing is crazy.
On Tuesday, Trelleborg's directors announced plans to spin off two big divisions -- minerals processing, and building and distribution -- as separately quoted companies on Stockholm's Stock Exchange.The board had been expected to approve a SKr1.5 billion international offering of new Trelleborg shares.
The board had also been expected to approve a SKr1.5 billion international offering of new Trelleborg shares.that share issue was postponed until market conditions stabilize.
But that share issue was postponed.market conditions stabilize.
A family foundation set up by late founder Henry Dunker controls 59% of Trelleborg's voting shares outstanding.the foundation bylaws require the entire Trelleborg stake to be sold in the open market if control drops below 50%.
to be sold in the open market.control drops below 50%.
That possibility had crept closer.repeated new share offerings to finance Trelleborg's rapid growth steadily diluted the foundation's holding.
That possibility had crept closer.repeated new share offerings to finance Trelleborg's rapid growth steadily diluted the foundation's holding.
Most of the new additions were barely profitable.not outright loss makers.
Between 1985 and 1988, sales multipled more than 10 times.pretax profit surged almost twelvefold.
Mr. Andersson to be named Trelleborg's new chairman.Ernst Herslow steps down next year.
Many analysts expect Mr. Andersson, who owns 1.7% of the company, to be named Trelleborg's new chairman when Ernst Herslow steps down next year.the promotion isn't likely to alter a management style Mr. Andersson describes as "being the driving force leading the troops, not managing by sitting back with a cigar waiting for people to bring me ideas.
Trelleborg isn't in the same league yet as mining giants such as RTZ Corp. or Anglo-American Corp.we certainly like what we've seen so far.
that the conquest of Falconbridge could vault Trelleborg from a regional Scandinavian success story to a world-class mining concern.Trelleborg still must clear some tough hurdles.
Trelleborg isn't in the same league yet as mining giants such as RTZ Corp. or Anglo-American Corp But we certainly like what we've seen so far.But Trelleborg must clear some tough hurdles.
Booming metals prices have fueled Trelleborg's recent profit surge, raising mining's share of pretax profit to 68% this year from a big loss two years earlier.an expected fall in metal prices next year could slow profit growth.
Noranda would prefer to break up Falconbridge.that the Swedes -- relatively inexperienced in international mining operations -- could have problems holding their own with a much bigger partner like Noranda operating on its home turf.
We'd be reluctant to accept 50-50 ownership in a manufacturing company.such partnerships are common in mining, where there aren't problems or conflict of interest or risk of cheating by a partner.
the '90s will be the investment decade.the 1980s were a decade of consumption.
If the 1980s were a decade of consumption, the '90s will be the investment decade.investment is the key word for base metals, and most other businesses Trelleborg is in.
John Sculley, chairman and chief executive officer, credited the Macintosh SE/30 and IIcx computers, introduced in the winter, for the brightened sales performance.Mr. Sculley indicated that sagging margins, which dogged the company through most of 1989, began to turn up in the fourth quarter as chip prices eased.
that sagging margins began to turn up in the fourth quarter.chip prices eased.
that sagging margins began to turn up in the fourth quarter.chip prices eased.
Margins in the fiscal fourth quarter perked up, rising to 51% from 49.2% a year earlier.For all of fiscal 1989 the average gross margin was 49%, below the average 1988 gross margin of 51%.
Gary J. Schantz, 44 years old, was named president and chief operating officer Martin Schrager, 51, who had been president, was named vice chairman.the board expanded to six members with the election of David L. Holewinski, a consultant.
Separately, the board expanded to six members with the election of David L. Holewinski, a consultant.The company said it privately placed stock and warrants in exchange for $750,000.
Terry L. Haines, formerly general manager of Canadian operations, was elected to the new position of vice president, North American sales, of this plastics concern.Larry A. Kushkin, executive vice president, North American operations, was named head of the company's international automotive operations, another new position.
He remains an executive vice president.his new position reflects "the growing importance of the world automotive market as a market for A. Schulman's high performance plastic materials.
Gordon Trimmer will succeed Mr. Haines as manager of Canadian operations.Mr. Kushkin's former position isn't being filled at this time.
It may not be toxic.we know where one waste dump is.
it moved its headquarters for Latin America to Mexico and the headquarters for the Asia/Australia regional division to Singapore, effective Oct.The central offices for both regions were located in Ludwigshafen, Basf headquarters.
It's getting harder to sell," he mutters.he leaves the room.
Manila is offering several major assets for the first time and is trying to conclude sales already arranged.the government is scheduled to unveil plans for privatizing Philippine Airlines, the national carrier, an effort that lawyer and business columnist Rodolfo Romero calls "the bellwether of privatization.
Much of the money from the sales is earmarked for a multibillion-dollar agrarian-reform program.efforts have been thwarted by official indifference, bureaucratic resistance, a legal system that operates at a snail's pace, political opposition and government misjudgments.
Rather than gathering momentum, the program is in danger of slowing even more.the government tackles several big assets.
Rather than gathering momentum, the program is in danger of slowing even more.the government tackles several big assets.
The Asset Privatization Trust, the agency chiefly responsible for selling government-held properties, has recorded sales of more than $500 million.it began functioning in December 1986.
The Asset Privatization Trust, the agency chiefly responsible for selling government-held properties, has recorded sales of more than $500 million since it began functioning in December 1986.its success has been largely in the sale of small, nonperforming companies, which are valued for their assets.
Dealing with the sales this month could be particularly challenging.almost every problem that has hobbled the program in the past is popping up again.
October's troubles began.the trust failed to sell a state-owned commercial bank, Associated Bank, for the minimum price of 671 million pesos ($31 million).
At the end of the month, the agency again will offer the bank.instead of a minimum price, only a target price will be established.
But instead of a minimum price, only a target price will be established.that the government may have difficulty selling the institution even without a floor price.
The bank has a negative net worth.special bidding rules give the bank's former owner, Leonardo Ty, the right to match the highest bid.
when the trust failed to sell a state-owned commercial bank, Associated Bank, for the minimum price of 671 million pesos ($31 million).the government will try again within a month to sell the 36% stake in Paper Industries Corp. of the Philippines, or Picop, as the paper mill is known.
The price will depend on how much Picop shares fetch on the local stock market.according to bankers and stock analysts who have studied the paper mill, price isn't the only consideration.
As it stands now, the government would continue to hold 45% of Picop.the 36% stake is sold.
About 7.5% of Picop is publicly traded.other shareholders own the rest of the equity.
why the bidding failed.what changes the agency may be able to offer.
the Asset Trust will study why the bidding failed and what changes the agency may be able to offer.Under government regulations foreign ownership of Picop's equity is limited to 40%.
critics have accused the trust of selling out to foreigners.the government would retain the 45% stake in Picop.
The carrier has valuable trans-Pacific and Asian routes.it remains debt-laden and poorly managed.
In American Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Eagle shares rose 12.5 cents to $11..In national over-the-counter trading, Webster shares fell 25 cents to $12.375..Webster has 3.5 million shares outstanding and Eagle 2.6 million.Their indicated market values are about $43.3 million and $28.6 million, respectively.
the banks' "markets are contiguous.their business philosophies are similar and conservative.
we must caution against an apparent tendency to overstate the case.It is not quite true that the Mexican government has "privatized" Mexicana de Aviacion, as Mr. Ortiz claims.
In the same sentence he contradicts himself.he reports that the government still retains 40% of the total equity of the airline.
In the same sentence he contradicts himself.he reports that the government still retains 40% of the total equity of the airline.
How can a company be considered "privatized.the state is so heavily represented in it.
True, the Mexican government has granted "control" over the airline to a new private consortium.its propensity to take back what it gives is too well known to permit one to be sanguine.
Regrettably, too, Mr. Ortiz resorts to the familiar "numbers game.he boasts that "fewer than 392 {state enterprises} currently remain in the public sector," down from the "1,155 public entities that existed in 1982.
that "fewer than 392 {state enterprises} currently remain in the public sector," down from the "1,155 public entities that existed in 1982.the enterprises still in state hands include the biggest and most economically powerful ones in Mexico.
But the enterprises still in state hands include the biggest and most economically powerful ones in Mexico.they virtually constitute the economic infrastructure.
But the enterprises still in state hands include the biggest and most economically powerful ones in Mexico.Those enterprises are not going to be privatized.
They are officially considered "strategic.their privatization is prohibited by the Mexican Constitution.
The divestiture of nonpriority and nonstrategic public enterprises is an essential element of President Carlos Salinas's plan to modernize Mexico's economy.clearly, modernization must embrace its key industries before it can be said to have caught the "privatization bug.
Yet clearly, modernization must embrace its key industries.it can be said to have caught the "privatization bug.
The divestiture of nonpriority and nonstrategic public enterprises is an essential element of President Carlos Salinas's plan to modernize Mexico's economy.The bottom line is not economic but political reform.
The board of this Ponce, Puerto Rico concern voted to suspend payment of its quarterly of 11 cents a share for the third quarter.The third-largest thrift institution in Puerto Rico said it expects a return to profitability in the third quarter when it reports operating results this week.
it expects a return to profitability in the third quarter.it reports operating results this week.
that would transfer majority ownership to employees.leaving some stock in public hands.
that would transfer majority ownership to employees.leaving some stock in public hands.
The group has been discussing a proposal valued in a range of $225 to $240 a share, or $5.09 billion to $5.42 billion.to avoid the risk of rejection, the group doesn't plan to submit the plan formally at a UAL board meeting today.
to submit the plan formally at a UAL board meeting today.the group is raising the proposal informally to try to test the board's reaction.
that collapsed last week.banks wouldn't raise needed loans.
that collapsed last week.banks wouldn't raise needed loans.
after banks wouldn't raise needed loans.after a key partner, British Airways PLC, dropped out.
that collapsed last week.and a key partner, British Airways PLC, dropped out.
that collapsed last week.and a key partner, British Airways PLC, dropped out.
In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange, UAL closed at $168.50 a share, down $21.625.the pilots union, which has been pushing for a takeover since 1987, appears to be pressing ahead with the revised bid to avoid further loss of momentum even though it hasn't found a partner to replace British Air.
But the pilots union appears to be pressing ahead with the revised bid to avoid further loss of momentum.it hasn't found a partner to replace British Air.
it believes bank financing could be obtained.the bidding group hasn't had time to develop its latest idea fully or to discuss it with banks.
the group doesn't plan to make any formal proposal without binding commitments from banks covering the entire amount to be borrowed.the collapse of the last effort.
the group doesn't plan to make any formal proposal without binding commitments from banks covering the entire amount to be borrowed.the collapse of the last effort.
Under the type of transaction being discussed, the pilot-management group would borrow several billion dollars from banks.that could be used to finance a cash payment to current holders.
that could then be used to finance a cash payment to current holders.Those current holders would receive minority interests in the new company.
Those current holders would also receive minority interests in the new company.the group could offer $200 a share in cash plus stock valued at $30 a share.
in which holders get a special dividend.retain a controlling ownership interest.
It wasn't clear how the ownership would stack up under the new plan.employees would keep more than 50%.
Management's total could be reduced.the public could get more than the 15% control that had been earmarked for British Air.
UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf may be asked to withdraw from the buy-out effort, at least temporarily, and to return to running the company full time.the pilots are expected to continue to pursue the bid.
The board could eventually come under some pressure to sell the company.its members can be ousted by a majority shareholder vote.
because its members can be ousted by a majority shareholder vote.one-third of UAL stock is held by takeover stock speculators who favor a sale.
The labor-management buy-out group plans to keep its offer on the table in an apparent attempt to maintain its bargaining position with the board.the only outsider who has emerged to lead such a shareholder vote, Los Angeles investor Marvin Davis is hanging back.
Mr. Davis had paid $6 million for Citicorp's backing of his last bid.Citicorp has lost some credibility because it also led the unsuccessful effort to gain bank loans for the labor-management group.
But Citicorp has lost some credibility.it also led the unsuccessful effort to gain bank loans for the labor-management group.
Mr. Davis had paid $6 million for Citicorp's backing of his last bid.because it led the unsuccessful effort to gain bank loans for the labor-management group.
On Friday, British Air issued a statement saying it "does not intend to participate in any new deal for the acquisition of UAL in the foreseeable future.that British Air might yet rejoin the bidding group and that the carrier made the statement to answer questions from British regulators about how it plans to use proceeds of a securities offering previously earmarked for the UAL buy-out.
that British Air might yet rejoin the bidding group.that the carrier made the statement to answer questions from British regulators about how it plans to use proceeds of a securities offering previously earmarked for the UAL buy-out.
that British Air might yet rejoin the bidding group and that the carrier made the statement to answer questions from British regulators about how it plans to use proceeds of a securities offering previously earmarked for the UAL buy-out.late last week, UAL flight attendants agreed to participate with the pilots in crafting a revised offer.
Also late last week, UAL flight attendants agreed to participate with the pilots in crafting a revised offer.the machinists union, whose opposition helped scuttle the first buy-out bid, is likely to favor a recapitalization with a friendly third-party investor.
Also late last week, UAL flight attendants agreed to participate with the pilots in crafting a revised offer.Speculation has arisen that the UAL executive most closely identified with the failure to gain bank financing, chief financial officer John Pope, may come under pressure to resign.
that the UAL executive most closely identified with the failure to gain bank financing, chief financial officer John Pope, may come under pressure to resign.Mr. Pope's departure would weaken the airline's management at a critical time.
and will carry 30 seconds of advertising.ad-supported.
a possible course of action may include acquiring some or all of the Profit Systems shares it doesn't already own.that it hasn't determined any specific terms of a possible transaction.
The nation's holdings of foreign currencies increased $5.67 billion in September to $39.08 billion.its gold reserves were virtually unchanged at $11.07 billion.
U.S. holdings of IMF special drawing rights last month rose $247 million, to $9.49 billion.its reserve position at the IMF increased $142 million, to $8.79 billion.
Mr. Conway, 42 years old, was elected chairman, president and chief executive of Manhattan Life Insurance Co. and president and chief executive of Manhattan National Life Insurance Co.Harry Rossi, 69, chairman of the holding company remains chairman of Manhattan National Life Insurance Co.
The new proposal, which would transfer majority ownership of United Air's parent to employees and leave some stock in public hands, would be valued at $225 to $240 a share, or as much as $5.42 billion.UAL's board isn't expected to give quick approval to any offer substantially below the $300-a-share bid that collapsed recently.
Ford and Saab ended talks about a possible alliance.Ford concluded that the cost to modernize Saab's car operations would outweigh the likely return.
Most bond prices fell.junk bonds and the dollar rose.
that prices could collapse a few months from now.the group doesn't adopt new quotas.
The proposals, from suitors including Interpublic Group, come.the London-based ad giant struggles through its most difficult period ever.
The FDA requested the recall of Quantum's mioxidil tablets, chlorazepate dipotassium tablets and meclofenamate sodium capsules.the size of the production runs submitted for testing to gain FDA approval was in each case misrepresented as much larger than it actually was.
it was suspending production and distribution of all 21 of Quantum's generic drug products pending the completion of an exhaustive internal audit.It temporarily closed Quantum, because of the internal investigation, as well as the FDA's ongoing inquiry.
Year-earlier per-share results aren't applicable.the company went public in January.
costs will be lower.chemical margins continued to worsen this quarter.
costs will be lower.the maintenance and expansions are complete.
Four other unions have yet to vote.their leadership also recommended approval.
Members of the largest union voted in favor of the pact yesterday.but their leadership recommended approval.
LEBANESE LAWMAKERS APPROVED a peace plan.Aoun rejected it.
Lebanon's Parliament passed the power-sharing accord to end the country's 14-year-old conflict.the Christian military leader wad the plan was "full of ambiguities.
the San Francisco Bay area girded for hundreds of thousands of commuters seeking to avoid routes ravaged by last Tuesday's tremor.rescuers pressed their efforts after finding a survivor in a collapsed freeway.
As rescuers pressed their efforts.finding a survivor in a collapsed freeway.
The existence of the policy became known.Bush disclosed it to seven GOP senators last week, citing the plan as an example of congressional requirements the administration contends contribute to the failure of covert actions.
The existence of the policy became known.Bush disclosed it to seven GOP senators last week, citing the plan as an example of congressional requirements the administration contends contribute to the failure of covert actions.
Rep. Garcia and his wife were found guilty by a federal jury in New York of extorting $76,000 from Wedtech Corp. in return for official acts by the New York Democrat.The jury convicted them of extortion in obtaining a $20,000 interest-free loan from an officer of the defunct defense contractor.
The Boeing 727, en route to Honduras from Costa Rica via Nicaragua, smashed into the hills outside Tegucigalpa.it approached the capital's airport in high winds and low clouds.
The U.S. and Israel have been holding what an aide to Prime Minister Shamir called intense telephone negotiations in an effort to bridge differences over Mideast peace moves.The Labor Party threatened to support a parliamentary motion to topple the coalition unless Shamir showed flexibility on Arab-Israeli talks.
to support a parliamentary motion to topple the coalition.Shamir showed flexibility on Arab-Israeli talks.
The Sandinista government and the U.S.-backed insurgents agreed in March to suspend offensive operations.there has been sporadic fighting.
Telephone-operations quarterly profit increased 9% to $84 million from $77 million.federal-systems earnings declined 33% to $4 million from $6 million.
Customer-access lines increased at an annualized rate of about 4%.minutes of long-distance use rose about 12%.
You have to have clear feelings about someone.you can make jokes.
many initially thought he was.the 52-year-old Politburo member was selected last week to succeed Erich Honecker.
Mr. Krenz doesn't seem to be the knee-jerk hardliner many initially thought he was when the 52-year-old Politburo member was selected last week to succeed Erich Honecker.he doesn't appear to be ready to make broad changes either.
On Thursday East German television broke into regular programming to launch a talk show in which viewers call in questions for a panel of officials to answer.he took office.
On Thursday, a day after he took office, East German television broke into regular programming to launch a talk show in which viewers call in questions for a panel of officials to answer.The regular nightly news program and daily newspapers are getting a visible injection of Soviet-style glasnost.
Other changes, including easing restrictions on travel for East Germans, are expected.whether such moves can win back the confidence of East Germans depends largely on whether they feel they can trust Mr. Krenz.
But whether such moves can win back the confidence of East Germans, who have taken to the streets by the thousands in recent weeks to demand democratic changes, depends largely on whether they feel they can trust Mr. Krenz.that's a problem.
Mr. Krenz is not only closely identified with his mentor, Mr. Honecker.but blamed for ordering violent police action against protesters this month and for praising China for sending tanks against student demonstrators.
there is much about his style that sets him apart from his party comrades.Mr. Krenz is dedicated to East Germany's conservative vein of communism.
Unlike Mr. Honecker Mr. Krenz enjoys asking questions.one of his first actions as leader was to visit a gritty machine factory on the outskirts of Berlin and wander among the workers -- a la Gorbachev.
Indeed, one of his first actions as leader was to visit a gritty machine factory on the outskirts of Berlin and wander among the workers -- a la Gorbachev.He was shown on television, fielding questions.
He's a very tough man, but one who's also open to arguments.there's another side to Mr. Krenz.
Mr. Krenz may project a smooth image.he's a true reformer.
he appears to have only limited room for maneuver within the Communist Party's ruling Politburo.he is.
He doesn't have any honeymoon period.if he's sharp and quick, he has a chance.
But he has a chance.he's sharp and quick.
The East German economy is strong compared with other East bloc nations.his relative youth could help him project a more vibrant image, contrasting with the perception of Mr. Honecker as an out-of-touch old man.
he wasn't being real in the past.he isn't being real right now.
I have to come here to read the walls.it's information I still can't get through the newspapers.
that there's no reason to change your own.a neighbor hangs new wallpaper.
It's hard to know whether it was intended to be funny.everyone I know laughed about it.
The list of laboratories claiming to be producing inexplicable amounts of heat from "cold fusion" experiments is slowly growing.the experiments continue to be plagued by lack of firm evidence that the extra heat is coming from the fusing of hydrogen atoms.
Neither of the two chemists whose Utah experiments triggered the cold fusion uproar, Martin Fleischmann and B. Stanley Pons, were at the meeting.some members of an ad hoc expert committee set up by the Department of Energy to evaluate the cold fusion research were in the audience.
the heavy water did begin to break up, or dissociate.an electric current is applied to the palladium and platinum electrodes.
the heavy water did begin to break up, or dissociate.an electric current is applied to the palladium and platinum electrodes.
Ordinarily the electrolysis, or breakup, of the water would consume almost all of the electrical energy.Messrs..Fleischmann and Pons said their experiments also produced large amounts of heat.
Ordinarily the electrolysis, or breakup, of the water would consume almost all of the electrical energy.their experiments produced large amounts of heat.
they asserted that the "excess" heat energy must be coming from energy released by the nuclear fusion of deuterium atoms inside the palladium rod.they also detected tritium and indications of nuclear radiation.
their experiments also produced large amounts of heat.Because they detected tritium and indications of nuclear radiation.
But Messrs..Fleischmann and Pons said their experiments also produced large amounts of heat.As of last weekend, a dozen labs have reported measuring "excess" heat from similar electrolytic experiments.
As of last weekend, a dozen labs also have reported measuring "excess" heat from similar electrolytic experiments.amounts of such heat vary widely.
his skepticism of the Utah claims was initially confirmed.his first experiments last spring failed to produce results.
his skepticism of the Utah claims was initially confirmed.his first experiments last spring failed to produce results.
his skepticism of the Utah claims was initially confirmed when his first experiments last spring failed to produce results.he then borrowed a palladium rod from chemists at Texas A&M who said they were getting excess heat On the fourth "run" with the borrowed rod, the experiment began producing excess heat.
when his first experiments last spring failed to produce results.But he borrowed a palladium rod from chemists at Texas A&M who said they were getting excess heat.
heat output "really took off" and produced excess heat for several hours before dying down.it was restarted.
and produced excess heat for several hours.dying down.
It would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water.then at totally unpredictable times, it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours before quieting down.
It would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water.then at totally unpredictable times, it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours before quieting down.
It would go along doing nothing but dissociating the heavy water.and at totally unpredictable times, it would begin producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours.
producing excess heat for as long as 10 or 11 hours.quieting down.
the heat bursts were too large and too long to be explained by the sudden release of energy that might have slowly accumulated during the experiments' quiescent times.they were getting sporadic bursts of excess heat lasting several hours at a time.
The bursts often occur.they "perturbed" the experiments by raising or lowering the amount of electric current being applied, or switching the current off and on.
Typically, the input energy ranges from a third of a watt to one watt.the excess energy is measured in tenths of a watt.
There isn't any way to continuously measure the amount of tritium in the heavy water.it's been difficult to tell whether the tritium formation is related to the heat bursts or some other phenomenon.
Messrs..Fleischmann and Pons initially reported indirect evidence of neutrons being produced in their experiment.but conceded the measurements were questionable.
A number of times they detected neutrons in one, sometimes two, of the three detectors.only once during 411 hours of the experiment did they detect a neutron burst in all three detectors.
but only once during 411 hours of the experiment did they detect a neutron burst in all three detectors.they think that was a spurious event.
not to announce it.they could confirm it.
In subsequent experiments, one of two neutron detectors occasionally indicated a burst of neutrons.neutron bursts were never recorded in both detectors at the same time.
added to the heavy water.it will conduct a current.
The rates, which take effect Jan. 2, include a 4% increase for national edition advertising.The Journal will offer expanded volume and frequency discounts.
Advertising rates for the Eastern, Midwest, Western and Southwest editions will increase an average 5.5%.rates for localized advertising editions will increase 7.5%.
published and printed in Hong Kong.and printed in Singapore and Tokyo.
Dow Jones & Co. announced Wall Street Journal advertising rates for 1990.Dow Jones publishes Barron's magazine, other periodicals and community newspapers and operates electronic business information services.
third-quarter net income fell 31%.sales dropped slightly from a year earlier.
sluggish consumer-electronics sales reduced demand for semiconductors..That, coupled with lower semiconductor prices and higher semiconductor-depreciation expense, contributed to the decline in sales and profit.cost increases related to fixed-price defense contracts and a $10 million charge to reduce the work force of Texas Instruments' defense-electronics division also reduced net.
That, coupled with lower semiconductor prices and higher semiconductor-depreciation expense, contributed to the decline in sales and profit.In addition, cost increases related to fixed-price defense contracts and a $10 million charge to reduce the work force of Texas Instruments' defense-electronics division reduced net.
sluggish consumer-electronics sales reduced demand for semiconductors..That, coupled with lower semiconductor prices and higher semiconductor-depreciation expense, contributed to the decline in sales and profit..In addition, cost increases related to fixed-price defense contracts and a $10 million charge to reduce the work force of Texas Instruments' defense-electronics division also reduced net.the quarter results included $28 million in royalty income from patent licenses, up from $21 million in the year-earlier period.
We expect near-term sluggishness in the electronics market.we will take ongoing cost-reduction actions as necessary to keep operations aligned with demand.
We expect near-term sluggishness in the electronics market.we will take ongoing cost-reduction actions as necessary to keep operations aligned with demand.
We expect near-term sluggishness in the electronics market and we will take ongoing cost-reduction actions as necessary to keep operations aligned with demand.an internal reorganization to combine several divisions into the Information Technology Group is expected to affect fourth-quarter results by an undisclosed amount.
It is an independent phone company with a service area of 15,000 square miles in southwest New Mexico.It is a partner in the wireline cellular franchise covering most of western New Mexico.
the price surge of 1979-80 precipitated an expansion of mine production and scrap recovery and encouraged silver consumers to economize on silver use.some 100 million ounces of silver once held by Mr. Hunt and Middle Eastern associates aren't hanging over the market anymore.
the price surge of 1979-80 precipitated an expansion of mine production and scrap recovery and encouraged silver consumers to economize on silver use.Photographic developers bought equipment to recover silver from spent photographs, negatives and processing solutions.
Photographic developers, for example, bought equipment to recover silver from spent photographs, negatives and processing solutions.the photographic industry, which accounts for 44% of silver consumption, continues to look for substitutes.
Photographic developers, for example, bought equipment to recover silver from spent photographs, negatives and processing solutions..Meanwhile, the photographic industry, which accounts for 44% of silver consumption, continues to look for substitutes..Japanese and U.S. photographic firms are beginning to produce electronic cameras and X-rays that don't require silver.Silver's history of volatility is discouraging investors.
precious metals are out of favor for the moment because of high interest rates and a determination by industrial nations to curb inflation.prices rallied briefly following the tumble on world stock markets earlier this month and the related decline of the dollar.
precious metals are out of favor for the moment because of high interest rates and a determination by industrial nations to curb inflation.Silver is in a deeper slump than are gold and platinum.
that silver is cheap.prices are languishing at levels last seen in the mid-1970s.
that silver is cheap.prices are languishing at levels last seen in the mid-1970s.
Scrap merchants are converting smaller quantities of metal into silver.low prices are discouraging exports from India and the Soviet Union.
Scrap merchants are converting smaller quantities of metal into silver.low prices are discouraging exports from India and the Soviet Union.
A further decline in prices will lead to mine production cuts in the U.S., he says..Scrap merchants are converting smaller quantities of metal into silver, while low prices are discouraging exports from India and the Soviet Union.Silver prices could be boosted by strikes in leading producing nations Peru and Mexico.
A further decline in prices will lead to mine production cuts in the U.S.total fabrication demand for silver has risen six years in a row.
Japanese demand grew by 70% in the first half of this year.the nation plans an issue of a silver commemorative coin that will require 4.5 million ounces.
A huge silver stockpile at exchanges, refiners, consuming industries and government warehouses of at least 617 million ounces is the market depressant.Silver production is in an inexorable upward trend.
Silver production is also in an inexorable upward trend.while Asian and Middle Eastern investors hoard gold and help underpin its price, silver doesn't have the same mystique.
Moreover silver doesn't have the same mystique.Asian and Middle Eastern investors hoard gold and help underpin its price.
Investors have gotten burned on silver so often that they are far more partial to gold.if gold prices improve, silver prices could rally sharply.
Yet silver prices could rally sharply.gold prices improve.
Yet silver prices could rally sharply.that any increase would be $1 to $2 at most.
the Agriculture Department reported that feedlots in the 13 biggest ranch states held 8.06 million cattle on Oct. 1, down 6% from that date a year earlier.the close of trading Friday.
Feedlots fatten young cattle for slaughter.a decline signals a tightening supply of beef.
In the 1988 quarter, many farmers were forced to sell their cattle to feedlot operators.the drought dried out the pasture on their ranches.
In the 1988 quarter, many farmers were forced to sell their cattle to feedlot operators because the drought dried out the pasture on their ranches.The number of cattle moving onto feedlots in the recent quarter was lower because fattening cattle is less profitable.
The number of cattle moving onto feedlots in the recent quarter was also lower.fattening cattle is less profitable.
The government reported that the number of young cattle placed on feedlots during the quarter dropped 5% compared with the year-earlier quarter.The Agriculture Department said that the number of fattened cattle slaughtered in the quarter dropped by 5% from the 1988 quarter.
that the drop continued the downward correction that's been due in the petroleum pits.that such a trend could well continue in the next several trading sessions.
Copper prices fell sharply Friday afternoon.copper for December delivery settled 4.5 cents lower at $1.2345 a pound.
that were touched off.the contract's price fell below it.
that were touched off.the contract's price fell below it.
which continued.the close of trading.
In general, it was a bearish close.whether this price break has implications for this week we will know more when the London Metal Exchange copper stock levels are released Monday morning.
But we will know more.the London Metal Exchange copper stock levels are released Monday morning.
But we will know more.the London Metal Exchange copper stock levels are released Monday morning.
LME inventories to be down by about 15,000 tons.the weekly report is issued.
that they perceived a bearish sign.traders saw the market wasn't reacting positively to the forecasts of lower LME stocks.
Bernard Savaiko, senior commodities analyst at PaineWebber Inc., said that when traders saw the market wasn't reacting positively to the forecasts of lower LME stocks, they perceived a bearish sign.He noted that the Japanese apparently pulled back from the market on Friday.
Task Broker asks other computers in the network for "bids" on the job.a machine has a big computing task.
Task Broker asks other computers in the network for "bids" on the job.It determines which machine is free to do the task most quickly and sends the task to that machine.
The new Hewlett-Packard program is a key building block.people move to this new model of distributed processing.
In today's computer networks, some machines often sit idle.others are overtaxed.
In today's computer networks, some machines often sit idle.others are overtaxed.
The Task Broker differs from other programs that spread computing tasks around a network.A previously available program called Network Computing System, developed by Hewlett-Packard's Apollo division takes a task and splits it up into parts, divvying up those parts to several computers in a network for simultaneous processing.
A previously available program called Network Computing System, developed by Hewlett-Packard's Apollo division, for instance, takes a task and splits it up into parts, divvying up those parts to several computers in a network for simultaneous processing.programs in individual computers must be revised in order to work with that system.
Applications won't have to be rewritten to work with Task Broker.the user of a computer won't be able to tell that another machine is doing the work.
ants get killed.elephants start fighting.
franchisers are struggling desperately for market share, slashing prices and stepping up costly promotions.hamburger and pizza outlets saturate one area after another.
franchisers are struggling desperately for market share, slashing prices and stepping up costly promotions.hamburger and pizza outlets saturate one area after another.
The chains "used to offer discounts during winter when business was slow.in the last year or so, discounting has become a 12-month thing.
profits will be flat or lower.Charisma's sales are up slightly this year.
profits will be flat or lower.some fast-food outlets "could be in serious trouble, based on the amount of discounting that seems to be going on.
Until recently, the huge fast-food industry, with sales of about $60.1 billion last year, kept price-skirmishing to a minimum.early this year, PepsiCo Inc. 's Taco Bell unit and Wendy's International Inc. slashed prices and stepped up promotions.
when McDonald's set plans to heat up the discounting by offering coupons.It decided to go national with pizza.
All we're doing is keeping the customers coming.we aren't increasing sales.
that they won't go into a fast-food store.they get a coupon.
many fast-food businesses will close or merge.the battle continues much longer.
you're doing well at someone else's expense.you're doing well.
inflation-adjusted, same-store sales at company-owned Wendy's units in the U.S. have trailed year-earlier levels throughout 1989, except for August.McDonald's has been running negative all year.
Profit margins at company-owned McDonald's outlets in the U.S. "are holding up quite nicely," says Mr. Greenberg.Mr. Greenberg's sanguine outlook isn't matched by many fast-food industry observers.
Franchisees can't be forced to go along with a franchiser's discounting.once a franchisee agrees to a promotional program, the franchiser can demand full participation to the very end.
But the franchiser can demand full participation to the very end.a franchisee agrees to a promotional program.
But the franchiser can demand full participation to the very end.a franchisee agrees to a promotional program.
maybe you would never get that telephone call about a new franchise.you resisted on prices.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
For years, the canceled checks of a small number of well-known baseball players have been bought and sold.these players were dead.
Maybe three years ago, there were a lot of {Ty} Cobbs in the hobby.awhile back there were Babe Ruth checks.
For years, the canceled checks of a small number of well-known baseball players have been bought and sold..But these players were dead.the thought of a living player selling his checks rubs some people the wrong way.
Maybe I'm a little stuffy.I wouldn't sell them.
Who knows how much they'll be worth 100 years from now.they're worth all that much now.
He has good investments.Mr. Jackson probably has opened new checking accounts, too.
And Mr. Jackson probably has opened new checking accounts, too.at least he should.
There's too much capacity.that transplanted Japanese car makers are boosting the levels of U.S.-made steel in their autos, instead of relying heavily on imported steel.
The hot-dipped galvanized segment is one of the fastest-growing and most profitable segments of the steel market.it expects the market for coated sheet steel to reach 12 million tons annually by 1992, compared with 10.2 million tons shipped in 1988.
For the first eight months of 1989 shipments of hot-dipped galvanized steel increased about 8% from a year earlier.overall steel shipments were up only 2.4%.
USX already has six lines in existing plants producing hot-dipped galvanized steel.this marks the first so-called greenfield plant for such production.
USX already has six lines in existing plants producing hot-dipped galvanized steel, but this marks the first so-called greenfield plant for such production.it will boost by 50% USX's current hot-dipped capacity of 1,275,000 tons.
USX Corp. and its Japanese partner, Kobe Steel Ltd., agreed to form a joint venture to build a new plant to produce hot-dipped galvanized sheet products, mainly for the automotive market.Steelmakers have been adding capacity of so-called electrogalvanized steel.
the rest is easy, right.YOU MAKE UP your mind about an investment.
to get burned.you don't know what you're doing.
There are all sorts of ways to give buy and sell instructions to a broker -- and just as many ways to get burned if you don't know what you're doing.here's a rundown of the most common types of market orders permitted by the stock and commodity exchanges.
Not all exchanges accept every type of order.even when a specific order is acceptable to an exchange, a brokerage firm can refuse to enter it for a customer.
And a brokerage firm can refuse to enter it for a customer.a specific order is acceptable to an exchange.
and the one most open to abuse by unscrupulous floor brokers.it imposes no price restrictions.
get me in now.get me out now.
With a market order, an investor tells a broker to buy or sell "at the market.if wheat is being offered at $4.065 and bid at $4.060, a market order to buy would be filled at the higher price and a market order to sell at the lower price.
For example a market order to buy would be filled at the higher price and a market order to sell at the lower price.wheat is being offered at $4.065 and bid at $4.060.
that some floor brokers at the two largest Chicago commodity exchanges used market orders to fill customers' orders at unfavorable prices by arranging trades with fellow brokers.Profits realized from these trades would be shared by the conspiring brokers.
Limit orders are used.investors want to restrict the amount they will receive or pay for an investment.
Investors may regret the restriction.the stock reaches 54 and then falls.
if the stock reaches 54.and falls.
investors aren't assured of having their orders filled because there may not be sufficient trading volume to permit filling it at the specified price.the market goes at least one tick (the smallest price increment permitted) beyond the limit price.
Unless the market goes at least one tick (the smallest price increment permitted) beyond the limit price, investors aren't assured of having their orders filled.there may not be sufficient trading volume to permit filling it at the specified price.
to buy or sell an investment.the price reaches a certain level.
to buy or sell an investment.the price reaches a certain level.
a stop order turns into a market order, and the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get.the price reaches that level.
a stop order turns into a market order, and the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get.the price reaches that level.
Once the price reaches that level, a stop order turns into a market order.the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get.
Once the price reaches that level, a stop order turns into a market order.the order is filled at whatever price the broker can get.
Stop orders are sometimes called "stop-loss" orders.they are frequently used to protect profits or limit losses.
there is a difference.stop orders sound similar to limit orders.
Sell stops must be entered at a price below the current market price.buy stops above.
Sell stops must be entered at a price below the current market price and buy stops above.sell limit orders must be placed above the market price and buy limit orders are placed below.
In contrast, sell limit orders must be placed above the market price.buy limit orders are placed below.
that the order was filled at $75.the stock opened at that price on Monday.
Stop-limit orders turn into limit orders.an investment trades at the price specified in the order.
which are filled at the market price.the stop price is hit.
which are filled at the market price.the stop price is hit.
it doesn't get filled.it can't be made at that price.
Investors who wish to be out of a position, without the risk of receiving a worse-than-expected price from a market order, may use this type of order to specify the price at which the order must be filled.if the market moves quickly enough, it may be impossible for the broker to carry out the order because the investment has passed the specified price.
But it may be impossible for the broker to carry out the order.the market moves quickly enough.
But it may be impossible for the broker to carry out the order.the investment has passed the specified price.
in that they become market orders.a specified price is reached.
Market-if-touched orders are like stop orders in that they become market orders if a specified price is reached.unlike a buy-stop order, a buy market-if-touched order is entered at a price below the current price.
However, unlike a buy-stop order, a buy market-if-touched order is entered at a price below the current price.a sell market-if-touched order is entered at a price above it.
the floor broker will fill it at the best possible price.the market trades at the specified price.
It instructs a broker to buy or sell an investment at the specified price or better.if the investment can't be bought or sold immediately, the order is automatically canceled.
But the order is automatically canceled.the investment can't be bought or sold immediately.
he uses fill-or-kill orders almost exclusively.trading options.
they don't fill it immediately.I can start over at a new price or try again with the same price.
to take more time to buy or sell an investment.they think they can get a better price by waiting.
to fill whichever order they can first.and cancel the other order.
On the close" can be added to many types of orders.market-on-close orders" must be filled during the last few minutes of trading for the day at a price that is within the official closing range of prices as determined by the exchange. "Stop-close-only orders" are stop orders that only become active during the closing minutes of trading. "Day orders" expire at the end of the day on which they are entered, "good-till-canceled orders" have no expiration date.
of entering "good-til-canceled limit orders.and forgetting about them.
who change their mind about buying or selling.an order has been filled.
IN SIZING UP the risks of stock-market investments, there's probably no starting place better than "beta.investors better not ignore its limitations, either.
The beta of the broad market, typically defined as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, is always 1.0.a stock with a beta of 0.5 is half as volatile, one at 1.5 is 50% more volatile, and so on.
Cautious investors should generally go with stocks that have low betas..Go with high-beta stocks to get the biggest payoff from a bet on a bull market.Remember that beta also has important limitations.
Beta figures are widely available and easy to interpret.that beta has important limitations.
There is risk that is not associated with market moves.the beta doesn't tell you the magnitude of that.
and the beta doesn't tell you the magnitude of that.beta doesn't measure the company- and industry-specific risk associated with an individual stock.
That "business" risk is very significant for an investor with only a few stocks.it virtually disappears in a large and well-diversified portfolio.
In particular, beta doesn't measure the company- and industry-specific risk associated with an individual stock.Beta is a poor indicator of the risk in stock groups that march to their own drummer.
Beta is also a poor indicator of the risk in stock groups that march to their own drummer.the prices of gold and other precious-metals stocks shoot up and down, but the stocks tend to have low betas because their moves are not market-inspired.
In particular, the prices of gold and other precious-metals stocks shoot up and down.the stocks tend to have low betas because their moves are not market-inspired.
but the stocks tend to have low betas.their moves are not market-inspired.
In reality it's very volatile.the movements are not because of market movements.
what's the specific peril that comes to mind.you think of the words "risk" and "investment.
what's the specific peril that comes to mind.you think of the words "risk" and "investment.
you said it's a holding that goes completely sour -- maybe a bond that defaults or a stock whose value disappears in a bankruptcy proceeding.you're like most people.
People tend to see risk primarily on that one dimension.therein lies another aspect of investment risk: the hazard of shaping your portfolio to avoid one or more types of risk and being blind-sided by others.
Risk wears many disguises.investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other, less obvious kinds.
Risk wears many disguises.investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other, less obvious kinds.
Risk wears many disguises, and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other, less obvious kinds.U.S. Treasury bonds are supersafe when it comes to returning money at maturity..But their value as investments can be decimated by inflation, which erodes the purchasing power of bonds' fixed-dollar interest payments.
U.S. Treasury bonds, for example, are supersafe.it comes to returning money at maturity.
U.S. Treasury bonds, for example are supersafe when it comes to returning money at maturity.their value as investments can be decimated by inflation, which erodes the purchasing power of bonds' fixed-dollar interest payments.
Risk wears many disguises, and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other, less obvious kinds.Risk is a function of time.
they usually focus on the volatility of short-term returns.financial professionals measure risk mathematically.
they usually focus on the volatility of short-term returns.financial professionals measure risk mathematically.
When financial professionals measure risk mathematically, they usually focus on the volatility of short-term returns.Stocks are much riskier than Treasury bills because the range in performance from the best years to the worst is much wider.
Stocks are much riskier than Treasury bills, for example.the range in performance from the best years to the worst is much wider.
When financial professionals measure risk mathematically, they usually focus on the volatility of short-term returns.investors who are preoccupied with short-term fluctuations may be paying too little attention to another big risk -- not generating enough money to meet long-term financial and life-style goals.
But investors who are preoccupied with short-term fluctuations may be paying too little attention to another big risk -- not generating enough money to meet long-term financial and life-style goals.some investors have sworn off stocks since the 1987 market crash.
For instance, some investors have sworn off stocks since the 1987 market crash; last Friday's debacle only reinforced those feelings.the stock market, despite some stomach-churning declines, has far outperformed other securities over extended periods.
Risk wears many disguises, and investments that are low in one type of obvious risk can be distressingly high in other, less obvious kinds.they take several steps when evaluating the riskiness of clients' portfolios.
they take several steps.evaluating the riskiness of clients' portfolios.
they take several steps.evaluating the riskiness of clients' portfolios.
They estimate the return a person's current portfolio is likely to generate over time, along with a standard deviation that suggests how much the return will vary year by year..They try to figure out the long-term results the person needs to meet major goals.they eyeball types of risk that are not easily quantified.
that investors need to consider.the insured municipal bonds that dominate the older couple's portfolio were probably selected in large part for their low repayment risk..But they expose the holders to a lot of inflation risk and interest-rate risk..The younger couple's stockholdings involve more risk than a diversified stock portfolio because the bulk of the money is in a single issue.
For instance, the insured municipal bonds that dominate the older couple's portfolio were probably selected in large part for their low repayment risk.they expose the holders to a lot of inflation risk and interest-rate risk.
The younger couple's stockholdings involve more risk than a diversified stock portfolio.the bulk of the money is in a single issue.
Note that the younger couple's portfolio has a higher expected annual return, 10.1% vs. 8.8%, as calculated by Seidman Financial Services, which is the financial-planning affiliate of BDO Seidman.one price paid for the higher expected return is greater short-term volatility.
Take the expected return.add one standard deviation to it.
Take the expected return and add one standard deviation to it.take the expected return and subtract one standard deviation.
Then take the expected return.subtract one standard deviation.
In two of three years, the actual result should fall within that range.all the assumptions were accurate.
Then take the expected return and subtract one standard deviation.add and subtract two standard deviations to get a wider range.
Of course, the greater volatility of the younger couple's portfolio doesn't necessarily mean those investments are riskier in terms of meeting the holders' long-term goals.the older couple's portfolio could actually be riskier in that sense if the expected return won't generate enough dollars to meet their spending plans.
Indeed, the older couple's portfolio could actually be riskier in that sense.the expected return won't generate enough dollars to meet their spending plans.
They may feel emotionally secure now.they are not heavily in the stock market.
They may feel emotionally secure now because they are not heavily in the stock market.they may pay a price 10 or 20 years in the future.
trying to weigh risk and reward can seem like throwing darts blindfolded.it comes to investing.
Looking to the past can provide some clues.Over several decades investors who put up with the stock market's gyrations earned returns far in excess of those on bonds and "cash" investments like Treasury bills.
Looking to the past can provide some clues.while history can suggest what is reasonable to expect there's no guarantee that the past will repeat itself.
But there's no guarantee that the past will repeat itself.history can suggest what is reasonable to expect.
But there's no guarantee that the past will repeat itself.bond returns and volatility have moved permanently closer to those of the stock market..And returns on cash investments may continue to exceed inflation by a wider margin than they did over the long-term past.
For instance, some analysts believe bond returns and volatility have moved permanently closer to those of the stock market.returns on cash investments may continue to exceed inflation by a wider margin than they did over the long-term past.
that the Senator and other members of the congressional left are broadening their dislike of Noriega to include other notorious Central American drug runners.The Sandinistas of Nicaragua also are part of the Castro-Medellin cartel nexus.
Capital has been democratized.people want in.
Capital has been democratized.people want in.
THROUGHOUT THE 1980s, investors have been looking for creative alternatives to traditional modes of financial planning.Too often small investors are left with the same stale solutions that appealed to previous generations of fiduciary strategists.
who hate risk, who are incapable of doing extensive amounts of planning.who refuse to see their life styles hurt in any way.
This is particularly good news for those who hate risk, who are incapable of doing extensive amounts of planning and who refuse to see their life styles hurt in any way.My revolutionary system is useful for those who have tried customary forms of growing their currency cushion.
to plunge certain funds into conservative monetary tools.to assuage my father-in-law.
Like all Americans seeking chronic prosperity, I do find it necessary to plunge certain funds into conservative monetary tools.throughout the decade I have maintained my share of individual retirement accounts and CDs, and tinkered with stocks, bonds and mutual funds, as well as preserving my necessary position in the residential real-estate market.
Return on this fine portfolio has been modest.it has not been negative.
Oil-related properties suffered a huge decline.I divested myself of all such stocks in 1985.
at which point the industry began a slow recovery.not lighting up any Christmas trees.
Oil-related properties suffered a huge decline until I divested myself of all such stocks in 1985, at which point the industry, while not lighting up any Christmas trees, began a slow recovery.mutual funds remained relatively flat until I made what was, for me, a serious investment.
Likewise, mutual funds remained relatively flat.I made what was, for me, a serious investment.
Concerned for her state of mind, I dropped them.the market instantly began its steady climb back to health.
Concerned for her state of mind, I dropped them.the market instantly began its steady climb back to health.
which was booming.I entered it in late 1988, at which time it posted the first negative compound annual growth rate in years.
some of it clearly disposable.we keep disposing of it.
Your priorities may be different.here in Figure 2 is where I've chosen to build for the future: personal space; automotive pursuits; children's toys; gardening equipment, bulbs and shrubs; and finally, entertainment, perhaps the best investment of all.
Expansion of my living space has produced an obvious need for maintenance and construction of suitable lawns, shrubs and bushes fitting to its suburban locale.I have committed sufficient personal outlay to ensure that my grounds and lodgings will never be short of greens and flowers.
At the same time, my share in a wide variety of entertainment pursuits has given perhaps the most dramatic demonstration of the benefits of creative personal financial planning.Over the course of the decade my return on investment in the area of poker alone (Figures 7A and 7B) has been most impressive, showing bodacious annual expansion with -- given the way my associates play -- no sign of abatement into the 1990s and beyond.
My kids' college education looms as perhaps the greatest future opportunity for spending.I'll probably have to cash in their toy portfolio to take advantage of it.
My kids' college education looms as perhaps the greatest future opportunity for spending, although I'll probably have to cash in their toy portfolio to take advantage of it.with every step I take, I'm building wealth.
You can, too.you, like me, refuse to bite the bullet.
You can, too, if you, like me, refuse to bite the bullet.go out there and eat that debt.
So go out there.eat that debt.
his father gave him a piece of career advice.JAMES SCHWARTZ was just a lad.
It should be noted that Mr. Schwartz, who operates out of Englewood, Colo., is a puckish sort who likes to give his colleagues the needle.in this case the needle has a very sharp point.
the fact remains that anybody who can fog a mirror" can call himself a financial planner.it's probably safe to assume that the majority of financial planners are honest and even reasonably competent.
Planners now influence the investment of several hundred billion dollars.in effect they operate in the dark.
There is no effective regulation of planners, no accepted standard for admission into their ranks no way to assess their performance, no way even to know how many of them there are.it should come as no shock that the profession, if that's what it is, has attracted a lot of people whose principal talents seem to be frittering away or flat-out stealing their clients' money.
Alarmed, state and federal authorities are trying to devise ways to certify and regulate planners.reform hasn't taken hold yet.
Nobody can estimate the toll.John Gargan, a Tampa, Fla., planner and head of one trade group, the International Association of Registered Financial Planners, thinks the danger to investors from incompetence is "humongous," far greater than that from crookery.
She concedes that such a position is "unfair" to the thousands of conscientious and qualified people plying the trade.as a consumer advocate she feels impelled to take it.
that even some people who took these steps "were still getting ripped off.The bad news hasn't been bad enough to kill the growing demand for financial planning.
The Tax Reform Act of 1986, which eliminated many tax shelters peddled by planners, and the stock market crash the next year did cause a sharp slump in such demand.many planners had to make an unplanned exit from the business.
The Tax Reform Act of 1986, which eliminated many tax shelters peddled by planners, and the stock market crash the next year did cause a sharp slump in such demand.many planners had to make an unplanned exit from the business.
The Tax Reform Act of 1986, which eliminated many tax shelters peddled by planners, and the stock market crash the next year did cause a sharp slump in such demand, and many planners had to make an unplanned exit from the business.membership in the International Association of Financial Planners (IAFP), the industry's biggest trade group, is still nearly triple what it was in 1980, and it's believed that the ranks of planners who don't belong to any group have soared as well.
But membership in the International Association of Financial Planners (IAFP), the industry's biggest trade group, is still nearly triple what it was in 1980.it's believed that the ranks of planners who don't belong to any group have soared as well.
An estimated 10 million Americans are now using financial planners.the pool of capital they influence is enormous.
The SEC has only about 200 staffers assigned to keep tabs on investment advisers -- about the same as in 1980.the number of advisers has tripled to about 15,000 over the past decade.
The sheer number of planners makes the business extremely difficult, if not impossible, to regulate.the SEC has proposed to Congress that much of the job of oversight be turned over to an industry-funded, self-regulatory organization patterned on the National Association of Securities Dealers, which operates in the brokerage business.
Mr. Gargan's group was excluded.the IAFP recently assembled other industry groups to discuss common standards that might be applied to planners.
That may be.Mr. Gargan enrolled his dog, Beauregard, as a member of the IAFP.
because Mr. Gargan enrolled his dog, Beauregard, as a member of the IAFP.he sent the pooch's picture with the certificate of membership to every newspaper he could think of.
the company had promised to put clients into "balanced" investment portfolios.the company consistently shoved unwary customers into high-risk investments in paintings, coins and Florida condos.
In practice the chances of being turned down by First Meridian were about as probable as being rejected by the Book-of-the-Month Club.an investor had access to cash.
In practice if an investor had access to cash "the chances of being turned down by First Meridian were about as probable as being rejected by the Book-of-the-Month Club.First Meridian's president, Roger V. Sala, portrayed himself as a "financial expert" when his qualifications largely consisted of a high-school diploma, work as a real-estate and insurance salesman, and a stint as supervisor at a highway toll booth.
And First Meridian's president, Roger V. Sala, portrayed himself as a "financial expert.his qualifications largely consisted of a high-school diploma, work as a real-estate and insurance salesman, and a stint as supervisor at a highway toll booth.
As for Mr. Sala's qualifications, "the snooty attorneys for the state of New York decided Mr. Sala wasn't qualified.he didn't have a Harvard degree.
and to invest in other companies in which he had an interest.Those companies paid Mr. Peterson commissions and fees.
and to invest in other companies in which he had an interest.Those companies paid Mr. Peterson commissions and fees.
each says he made with Mr. Peterson as part of an effort to purchase the Bank of Scottsdale in Scottsdale, Ariz.that he gave Mr. Peterson $50,000 to join a sort of investment club.
the bank purchase would be completed by the end of 1988.the money returned.
Wearing a business suit and western-style hat and boots, he opened up his briefcase and dumped $1 million in cash on a table in front of the directors.Bank officials showed him the door.
Bank officials, however, showed him the door.the sale never came off.
Mr. Peterson declines to comment on specific allegations in the two suits, saying he prefers to save such responses for court.he does say that all of his activities have been "entirely proper.
Mr. Peterson says the suits against him are less a measure of his work than they are a "sign of the times" in which people generally are more prone to sue.Mr. Peterson says he doesn't consider himself a financial planner anymore.
it probably is.it sounds too good to be true.
Other cases go to show that an old saw still applies: If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.Certificates of deposit don't pay 23% a year but that didn't give pause to clients of one Alabama planner..Now they're losers and he's in jail in Mobile County.
Certificates of deposit don't pay 23% a year, for example.that didn't give pause to clients of one Alabama planner Now they're losers and he's in jail in Mobile County.
Now they're losers.he's in jail in Mobile County.
CDs yielding 40% are even more implausible.the issuing "bank" in the Marshall Islands is merely a mail drop watched over by a local gas-station operator.
CDs yielding 40% are even more implausible.the issuing "bank" in the Marshall Islands is merely a mail drop watched over by a local gas-station operator.
CDs yielding 40% are even more implausible.investors fell for that one too.
Certificates of deposit don't pay 23% a year, for example, but that didn't give pause to clients of one Alabama planner..Now they're losers and he's in jail in Mobile County..CDs yielding 40% are even more implausible -- especially when the issuing "bank" in the Marshall Islands is merely a mail drop watched over by a local gas-station operator -- but investors fell for that one too.the Colorado planner who promised to make some of his clients millionaires on investments of as litle as $100?.Never mind..You already know the answer.
They graze at the Farmers Market, a combination gourmet food court and grocery store.a pianist accompanies the noon fashion show with a selection of dreamy melodies.
At the ritzy Fashion Island Shopping Center, the tanned and elegant ladies of this wealthy Southern California beach community disembark from their Mercedes-Benzes and BMWs for another day of exercising their credit cards.in the squat office buildings that ring Fashion Island, the odds are good that someone is getting fleeced.
This city of more than 70,000 is known for sunshine, yachts and rich residents.It is known as the fraud capital of the U.S.
The breezes are soft, the waves lap gently.the palm trees sway lazily.
Nothing seems hard here Nightlife is plentiful.ostentation is appreciated.
Newport Beach fits the scam artists' specifications perfectly.The rich image of Newport Beach helps lend the con artists' operation an air of respectability.
No wonder all kinds of big-time scams have flourished here, from phony tax-sheltered Bible sales to crooked car dealers to bogus penny-stock traders.above all, this is the national headquarters for boiler-room operators, those slick-talking snake-oil salesmen who use the telephone to extract money from the gullible and the greedy and then vanish.
who use the telephone to extract money from the gullible and the greedy.and vanish.
nobody really knows how much money bogus telemarketing operators really harvest.only a fraction of them are ever prosecuted.
Orange County has to be at least 10% of that.that's true.
If that's true, Orange County has to be at least 10% of that.most of the truly big scams in Orange County seem to originate in Newport Beach or one of the other well-heeled communities that surround this sliver-like city that hooks around a point of land on the California coast south of Los Angeles.
And most of the truly big scams in Orange County seem to originate in Newport Beach or one of the other well-heeled communities that surround this sliver-like city that hooks around a point of land on the California coast south of Los Angeles.sophisticated big-bucks boiler-room scams are known generically among law-enforcement types as "Newport Beach" operations.
In one ingenious recent example of a Newport Beach boiler room, prospective investors in Capital Trust Inc. were allegedly told that their investment in precious metals was insured against losses "caused by employees due to dishonesty, destruction or disappearance," according to an indictment handed up by a federal grand jury in Los Angeles last month.falsely reassured, investors sent $11.4 million to the Newport Beach company, most of which was diverted to unauthorized uses.
Traditionally, boiler rooms operate on the cheap.few, if any, customers ever visit their offices.
Traditionally, boiler rooms operate on the cheap, since few, if any, customers ever visit their offices.the name derives from the tendency among telemarketing scammers to rent cheap basement space, near the boiler room.
Traditionally, boiler rooms operate on the cheap, since few, if any, customers ever visit their offices.the interesting thing about Newport Beach operations is that they give themselves the indulgence of beautiful offices, with plush furnishings.
it's quite different from these Hollywood places where the sandwiches are spread out on the table and the people are picking their noses.we go there.
where the sandwiches are spread out on the table.the people are picking their noses.
that they give themselves the indulgence of beautiful offices, with plush furnishings.The Newport Beach operators tend to indulge themselves privately.
that building owners are victims, too.boiler rooms often leave without paying rent.
there wasn't that much to learn.you went to college.
Now it's time to take some risks.you want the kind of returns that will buy your toddler a ticket to Prestige U. in 18 years.
it's time to take some risks if you want the kind of returns that will buy your toddler a ticket to Prestige U. in 18 years.throw away the passbook and go for the glory.
In short, throw away the passbook.go for the glory.
A year at Harvard now goes for $19,395..By 2007, when this year's newborns hit campus, a four-year Ivy League sheepskin will cost $300,000, give or take a few pizzas-with-everything at exam time..Stanford, MIT and other utmosts will cost no less.what's a parent to do.
You're not going to make it in a 5% bank account To get the necessary growth you need to go to the stock market.a little volatility never hurt.
It never hurt anyone, that is.the growth funds don't grow when you need them to.
unless the growth funds don't grow.you need them to.
unless the growth funds don't grow when you need them to.the zero-coupon bonds turn out not to have been discounted deeply enough to pay your kid's tuition.
no one has a good answer for you if the risk doesn't pay off.many experts are advising risk.
no one has a good answer for you.the risk doesn't pay off.
The antitrust division of the Justice Department is investigating the oddly similar tuition charges and increases among the top schools..Fear of the price police could help cool things off in the 1990s.then there's always State U.
The antitrust division of the Justice Department is investigating the oddly similar tuition charges and increases among the top schools..Fear of the price police could help cool things off in the 1990s.And there's always State U.
And then there's always State U.parents' craving for a top-rated education for their children is growing like their taste for fancy wheels and vintage wine.
Most of the mailers are free.Denver-based Financial Programs sells, for $15, a version customized to the age of the child and the college of choice.
that would pay for Stanford.a current first-grader reaches college age.
They can cut this to $691.09 a month.the investing keeps up through college.
They can cut this to $691.09 a month if the investing keeps up through college.they can further reduce the monthly amount if they start saving earlier -- when mother and child come home from the hospital.
And they can further reduce the monthly amount.they start saving earlier.
T. Rowe Price's planner prescribes $450 monthly.the plan begins when the child is six.
if the plan begins.the child is six.
there would also be $16,500 in taxes to pay over the 12 years.the formula assumes an 8% before-tax return in a mutual fund.
Using a recent average private-school cost of about $12,500 a year, T. Rowe Price's planner prescribes $450 monthly if the plan begins when the child is six.there would be $16,500 in taxes to pay over the 12 years.
He takes issue with projections that don't factor in students' own contribution, which reduces most parents' burden substantially.it's no bad thing" if all the marketing prods people into putting aside a little more.
Still it's no bad thing.all the marketing prods people into putting aside a little more.
That way, parents will reduce borrowings and outlays from current income.the time comes to pay tuition.
that the best investment choice is mutual funds.they are managed and over time have nearly kept up with the broad stock averages.
that the best investment choice is mutual funds.In their anxiety parents and other student benefactors are flocking to new schemes.
They have laid out about $1 billion for so-called baccalaureate zero-coupon municipal bonds.they have bought about $500 million in prepaid-tuition plans, offered in Michigan, Florida and Wyoming.
that buyers can time things.their bonds pay off just when Junior graduates from high school.
so that their bonds pay off.Junior graduates from high school.
Like other zeros, they pay all their interest at maturity, meaning that buyers can time things so that their bonds pay off just when Junior graduates from high school.Their compounding effect is alluring.
The baccalaureate bonds -- tax-free, offered in small denominations and usually containing a provision that they won't be called before maturity -- seem to be tailor-made for college savers.zeros are particularly ill-suited.
Their price falls further than that of other bonds.inflation and interest rates kick up.
Their price falls further than that of other bonds.inflation and interest rates kick up.
That won't matter.they are held to maturity.
That won't matter if they are held to maturity.if, for any reason, the parents need to sell them before then, there could be a severe loss of principal.
but there could be a severe loss of principal.for any reason, the parents need to sell them before then.
Had zeros been available in 1972 and had parents bought a face amount equal to four years' tuition at the time, aiming for their children's 1988 enrollment, they would have been left with only enough to pay for two years.Most other bonds would probably not have fared much better.
The prepaid plans may be a good bet, provided the guarantee of future tuition is secure.Issuing states generally limit the guarantees to in-state institutions.
Issuing states generally limit the guarantees to in-state institutions, however.buyers get refunds without much interest if the children don't attend the specified schools.
and buyers get refunds without much interest.the children don't attend the specified schools.
Sponsors are naturally counting on their ability to keep ahead of tuition inflation with investment returns.buyers are essentially betting on a start-up investment fund with no track record.
But buyers are essentially betting on a start-up investment fund with no track record.some have been encouraged to borrow to do so.
a 100% stock portfolio, indexed to the market, would have kept up with tuition and taxes in the 20th century.sponsors might not pick the stocks that will match the market.
But sponsors might not pick the stocks that will match the market.they're leaning more toward fixed income, whose returns after tax have trailed tuition increases.
What happens.the sponsors don't have the cash to pay the tuitions.
here's the monthly sum you will need to invest to pay for four years at Yale, Notre Dame and University of Minnesota.you start saving for your child's eduction on Jan. 1, 1990.
He sold quarter-inch fingerlings to stock other farmers' ponds.he bought back one-pound-or-so food-fish that he "live-hauled" to market along with his own whiskery crop.
He sold quarter-inch fingerlings to stock other farmers' ponds, and he bought back one-pound-or-so food-fish that he "live-hauled" to market along with his own whiskery crop.he nearly always bought and sold for cash.
Mr. Baker interviewed or wrote to hundreds of catfish farmers, live-haulers and processors throughout the South.coming up with detailed estimates of purchases and sales, in pounds and dollars, by Mr. Tharp and others.
Confronted with the evidence, Mr. Tharp pleaded guilty to one charge of filing a false return and was fined $5,000 and sentenced to 18 months in prison.He owes a lot of back taxes, interest and civil fraud penalties.
The IRS recently won part of its long-running battle with the Church of Scientology over exemptions.the U.S. Supreme Court held that members' payments to the church weren't deductible.
that members' payments to the church weren't deductible.the members received services in return.
the IRS builds another factor into its secret computer formula for selecting returns for audit and doesn't need special projects for them.such abuses become so pervasive.
the IRS builds another factor into its secret computer formula for selecting returns for audit and doesn't need special projects for them.such abuses become so pervasive.
San Franciscans have a much higher incidence of audits than average.more of them score high under that formula.
San Franciscans have a much higher incidence of audits than average.IRS agents envy their life styles.
Many openings for mass cheating, such as questionable tax shelters and home offices, have gaped so broadly that Congress has passed stringent laws to close them.laws requiring the reporting of more varieties of transactions have enabled the IRS to rely on computers to ferret out discrepancies with returns and to generate form-letter inquiries to taxpayers.
Unreported alimony income can be spotted by computer.a payer of alimony must report the former spouse's Social Security number.
Unreported alimony income can be spotted by computer because a payer of alimony (who gets a deduction) must report the former spouse's Social Security number..Passport applicants now must give Social Security numbers, enabling the IRS to see whether Americans living abroad are filing required U.S. returns.while IRS computers focus routinely on target groups like these, the agency has assigned many agents to special projects that need more personal attention.
But the agency has assigned many agents to special projects that need more personal attention.IRS computers focus routinely on target groups like these.
and arise.auditors in an area detect some pattern of abuse among, say, factory workers claiming that having a multitude of dependents frees them from tax withholding or yacht owners deducting losses from sideline charter businesses.
Auditors involved in noncriminal projects can't send anyone to jail.they can make life miserable in other ways.
Other projects look for offenders among waiters who get cash tips, people who engage in large cash transactions, and people whose returns show they sold a home for a profit without reinvesting the capital gain in another home by the end of the same year; the gain must be rolled over within two years to defer tax.now that returns must show dependents' Social Security numbers, the IRS wants to see which dependents show up on more than one return -- and which dependents turn out to be deceased.
And the IRS wants to see which dependents show up on more than one return -- and which dependents turn out to be deceased.returns must show dependents' Social Security numbers.
And the IRS wants to see which dependents show up on more than one return -- and which dependents turn out to be deceased.returns must show dependents' Social Security numbers.
which dependents show up on more than one return.which dependents turn out to be deceased.
Many workers, especially professionals, want to remain independent to avoid tax withholding and to continue to deduct many expenses that employees can't.many others, who want to qualify for employee benefits and unemployment compensation, become tipsters for the IRS.
But many others, who want to qualify for employee benefits and unemployment compensation, become tipsters for the IRS.Firms that are paying employment taxes provide leads to competitors that aren't.
In his area, Mr. Lackey continues, the miscreant employers most commonly are in construction -- doing framing, drywall, masonry and similar work.a medical clinic with about 20 employees wrongly listed all of them -- including physicians and receptionists -- as independent contractors.
Firms that are paying employment taxes also provide leads to competitors that aren't.Revenue-short states are becoming more aggressive pursuers of tax delinquents.
Revenue-short states also are becoming more aggressive pursuers of tax delinquents.perhaps none tracks them down with more relish than does New York since it acquired an $80 million computer system in 1985.
and perhaps none tracks them down with more relish than does New York.it acquired an $80 million computer system in 1985.
In finding "good news" in Berkeley's new freshman admissions plan ("The Privileged Class," editorial, Sept. 20).The plan raises from 40% to 50% the number of freshmen applicants admitted strictly by academic criteria.
The plan indeed raises from 40% to 50% the number of freshmen applicants admitted strictly by academic criteria.that doesn't mean "half of the students attending Berkeley" will be admitted this way.
boosting admits from 40% to 50% will boost registrants from about 31% to 38% of the class.the "yield" from this top slice of applicants is relatively low.
Since the "yield" from this top slice of applicants is relatively low, boosting admits from 40% to 50% will boost registrants from about 31% to 38% of the class.perhaps 5% of registrants will come from a new category consisting of applicants whose academic credentials "narrowly missed" gaining them admission in the first category.
Since the "yield" from this top slice of applicants is relatively low, boosting admits from 40% to 50% will boost registrants from about 31% to 38% of the class..In addition, perhaps 5% of registrants will come from a new category consisting of applicants whose academic credentials "narrowly missed" gaining them admission in the first category.against that combined increase of 12% in students chosen by academic criteria, the plan eliminates a large category in which admissions now are based on grades, test scores and "supplemental points" for factors such as high-school curriculum, English-language proficiency and an essay.
The plan indeed raises from 40% to 50% the number of freshmen applicants admitted strictly by academic criteria Since the "yield" from this top slice of applicants is relatively low, boosting admits from 40% to 50% will boost registrants from about 31% to 38% of the class In addition, perhaps 5% of registrants will come from a new category consisting of applicants whose academic credentials "narrowly missed" gaining them admission in the first category But against that combined increase of 12% in students chosen by academic criteria, the plan eliminates a large category in which admissions now are based on grades, test scores and "supplemental points" for factors such as high-school curriculum, English-language proficiency and an essay..This category now accounts for about 19% of admits and 22% of registrants.The plan will decrease by 22%, for a net loss of 10%, the number of students admitted primarily by academic criteria.
Perhaps it does.the new category does not replace or reduce Berkeley's broad racial preferences.
But the new category does not replace or reduce Berkeley's broad racial preferences.will students from racial-minority groups who are admitted through the new category be counted against the affirmative-action "target" for their group.
The plan creates a new category of students from "socioeconomically disadvantaged backgrounds," a concept not yet defined, and gives them about 10% of the class.The plan places a large new affirmative-action program, based on "socioeconomic disadvantage," on top of the existing program based on race.
The plan thus places a large new affirmative-action program on top of the existing program based on race.The role of academic criteria in choosing Berkeley's freshmen can only decline.
Most of us know a sucker..Many of us are suckers.what we may not know is just what makes somebody a sucker.
that will knock your socks off.it is built.
But what we may not know is just what makes somebody a sucker.in the end, these people always wind up asking themselves the same question: "How could I be so stupid.
What makes people blurt out their credit-card numbers to a caller they've never heard of?.Do they really believe that the number is just for verification and is simply a formality on the road to being a grand-prize winner?.What makes a person buy an oil well from some stranger knocking on the screen door?.Or an interest in a retirement community in Nevada that will knock your socks off, once it is built.Because these people always wind up asking themselves the same question: "How could I be so stupid.
There are, unfortunately, plenty of answers to that question.scam artists know all of them.
then they know what buttons to push.they size them up.
then they know what buttons to push.they size them up.
Once they size them up.they know what buttons to push.
Once they size them up.they know what buttons to push.
John Blodgett agrees.he ought to know.
they often don't.the promises of big profits ought to set off warning bells.
they often don't.get-rich-quick tales have become embedded in American folklore.
The overnight success story is part of our culture.our society puts an emphasis on it with lotteries and Ed McMahon making millionaires out of people.
Other people are making it overnight.the rest who toil daily don't want to miss that opportunity when it seems to come along.
Other people are making it overnight.the rest who toil daily don't want to miss that opportunity when it seems to come along.
to miss that opportunity.it seems to come along.
Why do people play the lottery.the odds are great against them.
The overnight success story is part of our culture, and our society puts an emphasis on it with lotteries and Ed McMahon making millionaires out of people.Clearly scam artists have to be a bit more subtle than simply promising millions.
the psychology of suckers isn't simply the psychology of the greedy.There's for instance, the need to be part of the in-crowd.
the psychology of suckers isn't simply the psychology of the greedy.There's also the need to be part of the in-crowd.
There's also, for instance, the need to be part of the in-crowd.one popular ploy is to make a prospective investor feel like an insider, joining an exclusive group that is about to make a killing.
So one popular ploy is to make a prospective investor feel like an insider, joining an exclusive group that is about to make a killing.Between 1978 and 1987 SH Oil in Winter Haven, Fla., sold interests in oil wells to a very select group of local residents, while turning away numerous other eager investors.
Between 1978 and 1987, for instance, SH Oil in Winter Haven, Fla., sold interests in oil wells to a very select group of local residents.turning away numerous other eager investors.
Between 1978 and 1987, for instance, SH Oil in Winter Haven, Fla., sold interests in oil wells to a very select group of local residents.turning away numerous other eager investors.
this is really true.that they are part of a chosen group being given this opportunity.
insulating himself from being discovered and keeping his victim from consulting with others.It adds to the mystery of the venture.
I was allowing them to live a dream.people got into it.
a promise of unrealistic returns would have made him leery.a salesman "used a business-venture approach" with him, sending investment literature, a contract limiting the firm's liability, and an insurance policy.
it had "all the trappings of legitimacy.he visited the company's office.
or try to make sure that their victims isolate themselves.salesmen may counter a man's objection that he wants to discuss an investment with his wife by asking, "Who wears the pants in your family?" Or an investor who wants his accountant's advice may be told, "You seem like a guy who can make up his own mind.
For instance, salesmen may counter a man's objection that he wants to discuss an investment with his wife by asking, "Who wears the pants in your family.an investor who wants his accountant's advice may be told, "You seem like a guy who can make up his own mind.
he and his wife, Lily, warmed to the investment pitches of a penny-stock peddler from Stuart-James Co. in Atlanta.the broker told them he, too, had once worked with Lockheed.
The Lyneses, of Powder Springs, Ga., have filed suit in Georgia state court against Stuart James, alleging fraud.who lost money.
People may be particularly vulnerable to flim-flam pitches.they are in the midst of a major upheaval in their lives.
People may be particularly vulnerable to flim-flam pitches.they are in the midst of a major upheaval in their lives.
Sometimes they lose their bearings.people are making big changes, retiring from their jobs, moving to a new area.
Sometimes they lose their bearings.people are making big changes, retiring from their jobs, moving to a new area.
They may be susceptible to some song and dance.it hits them at the right time.
People may be particularly vulnerable to flim-flam pitches when they are in the midst of a major upheaval in their lives.They are obviously more susceptible when they need money-retirees, for instance, trying to bolster their fixed income or parents fretting over how to pay for a child's college expenses.
They are obviously also more susceptible.they need money-retirees, for instance, trying to bolster their fixed income or parents fretting over how to pay for a child's college expenses.
They are obviously also more susceptible.they need money-retirees, for instance, trying to bolster their fixed income or parents fretting over how to pay for a child's college expenses.
They are obviously also more susceptible when they need money.retirees trying to bolster their fixed income or parents fretting over how to pay for a child's college expenses.
We were saving up to buy a house.my wife was pregnant.
It was just before the Christmas holidays.I figured we could use some extra cash.
It was just before the Christmas holidays.I figured we could use some extra cash.
Prices for seats on the New York Stock Exchange are recovering a bit.hitting a four-year low earlier this month.
FOX HUNTING HAS been defined as the unspeakable in pursuit of the inedible.at least it's exercise.
Most of us have to spend our time on pursuits that afford neither, drab duties rather than pleasures.Like trying to buy life insurance an endeavor notably lacking in dash.
Most of us have to spend our time on pursuits that afford neither, drab duties rather than pleasures..Like trying to buy life insurance, for instance, an endeavor notably lacking in dash.sooner or later, most of us have to think about life insurance, just as we often have to think about having root-canal work.
But sooner or later, most of us have to think about life insurance, just as we often have to think about having root-canal work.my time has come.
In times past, life-insurance salesmen targeted heads of household, meaning men.ours is a two-income family and accustomed to it.
but ours is a two-income family and accustomed to it.if anything happened to me, I'd want to leave behind enough so that my 33-year-old husband would be able to pay off the mortgage and some other debts (though not, I admit, enough to put any potential second wife in the lap of luxury).
So I'd want to leave behind enough so that my 33-year-old husband would be able to pay off the mortgage and some other debts (though not, I admit, enough to put any potential second wife in the lap of luxury).anything happened to me.
So I'd want to leave behind enough.my 33-year-old husband would be able to pay off the mortgage and some other debts (though not, I admit, enough to put any potential second wife in the lap of luxury).
Over the past decade or two the insurance industry has spawned an incredible number of products, variations on products, and variations on the variations.I was thinking about fox hunting.
that can be used in various ways.the insured is still alive.
pure insurance -- a term policy -- gives you maximum bang for your buck, within limits.all you want is death-benefit coverage.
If all you want is death-benefit coverage, pure insurance -- a term policy -- gives you maximum bang for your buck, within limits.term" means just that.
and must be renewed.it expires.
the policy is written for a specific time period only and must be renewed when it expires.It may stipulate that the insured must pass another medical exam before renewal.
you may not be able to buy it.you flunk.
your premium will go up sharply because you're that much older.you're healthy and can renew.
your premium will go up sharply.you're that much older.
But "term" means just that; the policy is written for a specific time period only and must be renewed when it expires..It may also stipulate that the insured must pass another medical exam before renewal; if you flunk -- which means you need insurance more than ever -- you may not be able to buy it..Even if you're healthy and can renew, your premium will go up sharply because you're that much older.term insurance may not be as cheap as it looks.
One variation that appealed to me at first was the "Money Smart Term Life" policy offered by Amex Life Insurance Co., the American Express unit, to the parent company's credit-card holders.Upon examination I wondered whether the plan made a lot of sense.
and would pay me back all the premiums I put in.I canceled the policy after 10 years.
First I'd have no more insurance, a not insignificant consideration.I canceled.
that would have exceeded the inflation rate.and given the company a real profit.
to cancel.which could lock in its investment profit.
to cancel.which could lock in its investment profit.
That would be all right with Amex, which could then lock in its investment profit.it doesn't add up to a "smart money" move for me.
I win -- a hollow victory.I die early.
a hollow victory.I can't enjoy it.
If I die early, I win -- a hollow victory, since I can't enjoy it.if I live long, the insurer wins.
and the insurer wins.I live long.
This is worth remembering.insurers and their salesmen try to sell you permanent insurance, the kind that amasses cash value.
The word "death" cannot be escaped entirely by the industry.salesmen dodge it wherever possible or cloak it in euphemisms, preferring to talk about "savings" and "investment" instead.
but salesmen dodge it wherever possible or cloak it in euphemisms.preferring to talk about "savings" and "investment.
That's.you have to pay for the insurance portion of the policy and the effort required to sell and service the whole package.
to die.under its protection.
This is reflected in a built-in mortality cost -- in effect, your share of the company's estimated liability in paying off beneficiaries of people who had the effrontery to die while under its protection.in most cases, a huge hunk of your premium in the initial year or two of the the policy is, in effect, paying the salesman's commission as well.
That's because you have to pay for the insurance portion of the policy and the effort required to sell and service the whole package.view permanent insurance for what it is -- a compromise between pure insurance and direct investment.
You pay a set premium for a set amount of coverage, the company invests that premium in a portfolio of its choosing.your cash value and dividends grow over the years.
the insured could extract cash value in the form of policy "loans.none of the proceeds were taxable even though they included gains on investment.
and none of the proceeds were taxable.they included gains on investment.
Congress closed this loophole last year, or thought it did.Monarch Capital Corp. of Springfield, Mass., has developed a "combination plan" of annuity and insurance coverage that it says does not violate the new regulations and that allows policy loans without tax consequences.
that does not violate the new regulations.that allows policy loans without tax consequences.
However, Monarch Capital Corp. of Springfield, Mass., has developed a "combination plan" of annuity and insurance coverage that it says does not violate the new regulations and that allows policy loans without tax consequences.the percentage of your cash reserve that you can borrow tax-free is very small.
I'm not prepared in any case to put that much money into a policy immediately.I look into the broad category called universal life.
I can adjust the amount of insurance I want against the amount going into investment; I can pay more or less than the so-called target premium in a given year.I can even skip payments if my cash reserves are enough to cover the insurance portion of the policy.
and I can even skip payments.my cash reserves are enough to cover the insurance portion of the policy.
One is based on interest rates that the company guarantees (usually 4% to 4.5%).the other on the rate it is currently getting on investment, often 8.5% or more.
Projecting the latter over several decades, I find my cash buildup is impressive.can any high interest rate prevail for that long.
Projecting the latter over several decades, I find my cash buildup is impressive -- but can any high interest rate prevail for that long?.Not likely, I think.some policy illustrations assume that mortality costs will decline or that I will get some sort of dividend bonus after the 10th year..These are not certain, either.
that mortality costs will decline.that I will get some sort of dividend bonus after the 10th year.
Companies "aren't comfortable playing these games.they realize they're under pressure to make their policies look good.
Some of the companies currently earning very high yields are doing so through substantial investment in junk bonds.you know how nervous the market has been about those lately.
There are seemingly endless twists to universal life.it pays to ask questions about all of them.
There are seemingly endless twists to universal life.At a back-yard barbecue a friend boasts that she'll only have to pay premiums on her John Hancock policy for seven years and that her death benefits will then be "guaranteed." I call her agent, David Dominici..Yes, he says, premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to "vanish" after a certain period -- but usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection.
that she'll only have to pay premiums on her John Hancock policy for seven years.that her death benefits will then be "guaranteed.
that she'll only have to pay premiums on her John Hancock policy for seven years.and that her death benefits will be "guaranteed.
Yes premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to "vanish" after a certain period.usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection.
Yes premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to "vanish" after a certain period.but usually interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection.
the insurer may be knocking on my door, asking for steeper premium payments to maintain the same amount of protection.interest rates plunge.
Yes premiums on such variable-rate coverage can be structured to "vanish" after a certain period -- but usually only if interest rates stay high enough to generate sufficient cash to cover the annual cost of insurance protection.Some insurers have started offering "persistency bonuses," such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield, if the policy is maintained for 10 years.
offering "persistency bonuses," such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield.the policy is maintained for 10 years.
Some insurers have also started offering "persistency bonuses," such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield, if the policy is maintained for 10 years.that many of these bonuses are "just fantasies," because most aren't guaranteed by the companies.
that many of these bonuses are "just fantasies.most aren't guaranteed by the companies.
that many of these bonuses are "just fantasies," because most aren't guaranteed by the companies.the feature is so new that no insurer has yet established a track record for actually making such payments.
Some insurers have also started offering "persistency bonuses," such as extra dividends or a marginally higher interest yield, if the policy is maintained for 10 years..But Glenn Daily, a New York-based financial consultant, warns that many of these bonuses are "just fantasies," because most aren't guaranteed by the companies..And the feature is so new, he adds, that no insurer has yet established a track record for actually making such payments.So-called living-benefits provisions merit a close inspection.
these policy riders let me tap a portion of my death benefits.I'm still alive.
Some provisions would let me collect a percentage of the policy's face value to pay for long-term care such as nursing-home stays; others would allow payments for catastrophic illnesses and conditions such as cancer, heart attarcks, renal failure and kidney transplants.the catastrophic events for which the policyholder can collect are narrowly defined, vary from policy to policy, and generally permit use of only a small fraction of the face amount of insurance.
But the catastrophic events for which the policyholder can collect are narrowly defined, vary from policy to policy, and generally permit use of only a small fraction of the face amount of insurance.financial planners advising on insurance say that to their knowledge there has not yet been a tax ruling exempting these advance payments from taxes.
that to their knowledge there has not yet been a tax ruling exempting these advance payments from taxes.that people interested in, say, paying for extended nursing-home care would be better off just buying a separate policy that provides it.
I'm more favorably impressed by "no-load life.it turns out to be low-load life.
Insureres selling these policies market them directly to the public.or don't use commissioned salesmen.
there is still a load -- annual administrative fees and initial "setup" charges.that the lack of commission and of "surrender fees" for dropping the policy early still saves me a lot.
there is still a load -- annual administrative fees and initial "setup" charges.that the lack of commission and of "surrender fees" for dropping the policy early saves me a lot.
After one year I could walk away from the Ameritas policy with $792.Id get only $14 from the Equitable.
At age 65 the Ameritas offering would have a projected cash value $14,000 higher than the other.the Equitable's policy illustration assumed a fractionally higher interest rate.
and shop for something more exciting.she's doing it.
that third-quarter profit rose more than 15% from a year earlier.the gain is wholly due to asset sales.
which reduces the value of overseas profit.it is translated into dollars.
We had underfunded Maalox for a year.the company was concentrating on research and development and promoting other drugs.
It was the second anniversary of the 1987 crash.this time it was different.
The 30 industrials led the market higher from the opening bell.foreign buyers stepped in.
Standard & Poor's 500-stock Index rose 5.37 to 347.13.the Nasdaq composite index jumped 7.52 to 470.80.
The industrials were up about 60 points in the afternoon.cautious investors took profits before the close.
The consumer price index rose 0.2% in September.many economists were looking for a 0.4% increase.
that investors responded to good earnings reports of companies such as American Express.ignoring the disappointing profits of companies such as Caterpillar.
that investors responded to good earnings reports of companies such as American Express.ignoring the disappointing profits of companies such as Caterpillar.
To the amazement of some traders, takeover stocks were climbing again.Hilton rose 2 7/8 to 100.
Holiday Corp. gained 1 7/8 to 73.Honeywell rose 2 7/8 to 81 1/2.
Takeover enthusiasm may have been renewed.an investor group disclosed yesterday that it had obtained all the financing required to complete its $1.6 billion leveraged buy-out of American Medical International.
Takeover enthusiasm may have been renewed.an investor group disclosed yesterday that it had obtained all the financing required to complete its $1.6 billion leveraged buy-out of American Medical International.
Takeover enthusiasm may have been renewed when an investor group disclosed yesterday that it had obtained all the financing required to complete its $1.6 billion leveraged buy-out of American Medical International. "That's put some oomph back into this market," said Peter VandenBerg, a vice president of equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton.some traders thought there was less to the rally than met the eye.
the market is setting up for another fall.that uncertainty about today's monthly expiration of stocks-index futures and options, and options on individual stocks, prompted a lot of buying by speculative traders who were unwinding positions that were bets on declining stock prices.
Philip Morris added 1 1/8 to 44 1/2 in Big Board composite trading of 3.7 million shares, Coca-Cola Co. gained 2 3/8 to 70 3/8, Merck gained 1 3/8 to 77 3/8.American Telephone & Telegraph advanced 7/8 to 43 3/8 on 2.5 million shares.
Elsewhere on the takeover front, Time Warner advanced 2 5/8 to 136 5/8.Warner Communications tacked on 7/8 to 63 7/8.
Paramount Communications climbed 1 1/4 to 58 1/2.MCA rose 1 1/2 to 64.
Among other actual and rumored targets, Woolworth rose 1 1/4 to 60 1/2, Upjohn went up 1 1/8 to 39 3/4, Armstrong World Industries gained 1 to 40 1/8.Kollmorgen rose 3/4 to 13 7/8.
Paramount Communications climbed 1 1/4 to 58 1/2 and MCA rose 1 1/2 to 64; both media companies have long been mentioned as potential acquisition candidates..Among other actual and rumored targets, Woolworth rose 1 1/4 to 60 1/2, Upjohn went up 1 1/8 to 39 3/4, Armstrong World Industries gained 1 to 40 1/8 and Kollmorgen rose 3/4 to 13 7/8.Soo Line jumped 2 3/4 to 20 1/4, above the $19.50 a share that Canadian Pacific offered for the company in a takeover proposal..-- Xtra gained 1 1/8 to 27 1/8..Investor Robert M. Gintel, who owns a 4.7% stake in the company, said he plans a proxy fight for control of its board..-- Golden Nugget rose 2 to 28 1/4..Its board approved the repurchase of as many as three million common shares, or about 17% of its shares outstanding.
Consumer stocks once again set the pace for blue-chip issues.Buying interest resurfaced in the technology sector, including International Business Machines, whose board approved a $1 billion increase in its stock buy-back program.
IBM rose 2 3/8 to 104 1/8.2.2 million shares changed hands.
IBM rose 2 3/8 to 104 1/8.2.2 million shares changed hands.
Among other technology issues, Cray Research rose 1 5/8 to 37, Hewlett-Packard added 1 1/4 to 50 1/4, Tandem Computers rallied 1 1/8 to 25 3/4, Data General rose 3/4 to 14 1/2.Motorola gained 2 3/8 to 59 1/4.
Among other technology issues, Cray Research rose 1 5/8 to 37, Hewlett-Packard added 1 1/4 to 50 1/4, Tandem Computers rallied 1 1/8 to 25 3/4, Data General rose 3/4 to 14 1/2 and Motorola gained 2 3/8 to 59 1/4.Symbol Technologies dropped 1 1/4 to 18 1/2 after Shearson Lehman Hutton lowered its short-term investment rating on the stock and its 1989 earnings estimate, and Commodore International fell 7/8 to 8 after the company said it expects to post a loss for the September quarter.
On the other hand, Symbol Technologies dropped 1 1/4 to 18 1/2.Shearson Lehman Hutton lowered its short-term investment rating on the stock and its 1989 earnings estimate.
On the other hand, Symbol Technologies dropped 1 1/4 to 18 1/2.Shearson Lehman Hutton lowered its short-term investment rating on the stock and its 1989 earnings estimate.
On the other hand, Symbol Technologies dropped 1 1/4 to 18 1/2 after Shearson Lehman Hutton lowered its short-term investment rating on the stock and its 1989 earnings estimate.Commodore International fell 7/8 to 8 after the company said it expects to post a loss for the September quarter.
and Commodore International fell 7/8 to 8.the company said it expects to post a loss for the September quarter.
and Commodore International fell 7/8 to 8.the company said it expects to post a loss for the September quarter.
American International Group climbed 4 to 106 5/8, General Re rose 3 1/8 to 89 5/8, Kemper added 2 1/2 to 48, AON went up 1 3/8 to 36.Chubb rose 1 1/4 to 82 1/4.
Mattel added 1 1/4 to 19 5/8, Tonka firmed 1 to 18 1/2.Lewis Galoob Toys rose 7/8 to 13 5/8 on the Big Board.
Mattel added 1 1/4 to 19 5/8, Tonka firmed 1 to 18 1/2 and Lewis Galoob Toys rose 7/8 to 13 5/8 on the Big Board.Hasbro gained 1 to 21 7/8 on the American Stock Exchange.
Chambers Development Class A jumped 3 1/8 to 37 1/8.Class B rose 2 5/8 to 37 1/4.
to pass a statute barring flag desecration.voting on the constitutional change.
he would allow the bill to become law without his signature.only a constitutional amendment can protect the flag adequately.
there's good news and bad news.you think you have stress-related problems on the job.
You're probably right.you aren't alone.
The stress study was undertaken.problems related to stress "are much more prevalent than they seem.
to sensitize employers" to recognize the problems.they can do something about them.
which sometimes results.these problems go untreated for too long.
which sometimes results.these problems go untreated for too long.
Even the courts are beginning to recognize the link between jobs and stress-related disorders in compensation cases, according to a survey by the National Council on Compensation Insurance.although 56% of the respondents in the study indicated that mental-health problems were fairly pervasive in the workplace, there is still a social stigma associated with people seeking help.
But there is still a social stigma associated with people seeking help.56% of the respondents in the study indicated that mental-health problems were fairly pervasive in the workplace.
with 65% of those in companies of more than 15,000 employees saying stress-related problems were "fairly pervasive.55% of those in companies with fewer than 4,000 employees agreeing.
The poll showed that company size had a bearing on a manager's view of the problem, with 65% of those in companies of more than 15,000 employees saying stress-related problems were "fairly pervasive" and 55% of those in companies with fewer than 4,000 employees agreeing.The poll noted fear of a takeover as a stress-producing event in larger companies.
The poll also noted fear of a takeover as a stress-producing event in larger companies.The study found 47% of the managers said stress, anxiety and depression contribute to decreased production.
stress perceived to be threatening implies a component of fear and anxiety that may contribute to burnout.that stress and anxiety have their positive uses.
Although Dr. Warshaw points out that stress and anxiety have their positive uses, "stress perceived to be threatening implies a component of fear and anxiety that may contribute to burnout.He noted that various work environments, such as night work, have their own "stressors.
We all like stress.there's a limit.
IT ISN'T TRUE that a 90-year old clergyman on a mission of mercy to a disaster area on Christmas Day can fly free.his circumstances are among the few that can qualify for the handful of really cheap airline tickets remaining in America.
In recent years, carriers have become much more picky about who can fly on the cheap.there still are a few ways today's traveler can qualify under the airline's many restrictions.
But there still are a few ways today's traveler can qualify under the airline's many restrictions.One of the best deals may mean skipping Christmas dinner with the relatives.
That approach flopped.this year, the airlines are getting a jump on holiday discounts.
couples like Marlo Thomas and Phil Donahue may find it a hassle to qualify for some new discounts.CONTINENTAL Airlines has its way.
Only immediate family members are allowed.they must have the same last name as the buyer of the ticket or legal proof they're related.
That irritates many women who haven't taken their husbands' last name.gay rights advocates are angry, too.
it downed electric and telephone lines, shot coconuts through cottage rooftops, shattered windows and uprooted thousands of lives.HURRICANE Hugo careened through the Caribbean and the Atlantic coast states.
it downed electric and telephone lines, shot coconuts through cottage rooftops, shattered windows and uprooted thousands of lives.HURRICANE Hugo careened through the Caribbean and the Atlantic coast states.
WHEN HURRICANE Hugo careened through the Caribbean and the Atlantic coast states, it downed electric and telephone lines, shot coconuts through cottage rooftops, shattered windows and uprooted thousands of lives.It lowered some air fares.
Airlines aren't lowering fares to Northern California following this week's earthquake.reservation agents can waive advance-purchase restrictions on discount fares for emergency trips.
We don't have the outdoor pool, the pool table, ping pong table, snack bar or VCR.we still have the indoor pool and Jacuzzi.
Just Wait.You're a Bit Older.
A senior citizen between 62 and 70 saves 70% off regular coach fare..Travelers up to age 99 get a percentage discount matching their age.centenarians fly free in first class.
A senior citizen between 62 and 70 saves 70% off regular coach fare..Travelers up to age 99 get a percentage discount matching their age.centenarians fly free in first class.
A senior citizen between 62 and 70 saves 70% off regular coach fare..Travelers up to age 99 get a percentage discount matching their age..And centenarians fly free in first class.THE NATION'S carriers provide discounts to Red Cross workers, retired military personnel and medical students.
initial production from the field was 11,000 barrels a day.that it expects peak output from the field of 15,000 barrels a day to be reached in 1990.
For every dollar earned over $8,880, Social Security recipients lose 50 cents of their Social Security benefits; it's like a 50% marginal tax.the compounded effects of "seniors only" taxes result in truly catastrophic marginal tax rates.
For every dollar earned over $8,880, Social Security recipients lose 50 cents of their Social Security benefits; it's like a 50% marginal tax.the compounded effects of "seniors only" taxes result in truly catastrophic marginal tax rates.
she had.she had to pay the catastrophic surtax.
she would have to earn an additional $4,930 to offset her catastrophic surtax of $496.this widow earns only twice the minimum wage, largely due to the earnings limit.
it is the Democrats who will be held fully accountable if an earnings test amendment is not allowed from the floor.all four Republicans on the committee are co-sponsors of my bill.
it is the Democrats who will be held fully accountable.an earnings test amendment is not allowed from the floor.
Jack Purnick had 25 workers and a large factory.his Seventh Avenue fur business here was flying high 20 years ago.
Now his half-dozen employees work in an eighth-floor shop that he says is smaller than his old storage room.He says he is losing money now.
When his Seventh Avenue fur business here was flying high 20 years ago, Jack Purnick had 25 workers and a large factory..Now his half-dozen employees work in an eighth-floor shop that he says is smaller than his old storage room..He also says he is losing money now..He blames imports.just down Seventh Avenue, where about 75% of U.S. fur garments are made, Larry Rosen has acquired two retail outlets, broadened his fur-making line and expanded into leather..He credits imports.
One stuck to old-line business traditions.the other embraced the change.
We make the finest product in the world.the Americans are being kicked around.
We make the finest product in the world, and the Americans are being kicked around.Mr. Rosen believes imports have reinvigorated the industry in which he has worked for most of his 57 years.
Import competition for U.S. furs has risen sharply.furriers started aggressively marketing "working-girl mink" and similar lower-priced imported furs in recent years.
Import competition for U.S. furs has risen sharply.furriers started aggressively marketing "working-girl mink" and similar lower-priced imported furs in recent years.
The new market helped boost U.S. fur sales to about $1.8 billion a year now, triple the level in the late 1970s.It opened the door to furs made in South Korea, China, Hong Kong and other countries.
High-end U.S. furriers say these imports haven't squeezed them.low-priced and middle-priced furriers like Mr. Purnick say imports have cut their sales.
imports have cut their sales.Mr. Rosen has turned the import phenomenon to his advantage.
Early in the decade he saw that fur workers in many foreign countries were willing to work longer hours at lower wages than their American counterparts and were more open to innovation.He noticed that foreign makers were introducing many variations on the traditional fur.
He also noticed that foreign makers were introducing many variations on the traditional fur.he decided to follow suit.
He also noticed that foreign makers were introducing many variations on the traditional fur.he decided to follow suit.
he still makes most of his furs in the U.S.six years ago he also began importing from the Far East.
he still makes most of his furs in the U.S.But six years ago he began importing from the Far East.
Inspired by imports, Mr. Rosen now makes fur muffs, hats and flings..This year he produced a men's line and offers dyed furs in red, cherry red, violet, royal blue and forest green..He has leather jackets from Turkey that are lined with eel skin and topped off with raccoon-skin collars..From Asia, he has mink jackets with floral patterns made by using different colored furs.he will be testing pictured embroidery (called kalega) made in the Far East.
leathers also attract retailers who may buy furs later.adding to sales.
Besides adding to sales.leathers attract retailers who may buy furs later.
leathers also attract retailers.who may buy furs.
Besides adding to sales, leathers also attract retailers who may buy furs later.Other furriers have benefited from leathers.
He also noticed that foreign makers were introducing many variations on the traditional fur, and he decided to follow suit.Mr. Rosen is pushing retail sales.
Mr. Rosen is also pushing retail sales.Other furriers have placed more weight on retailing.
Golden Feldman Furs Inc. began retailing aggressively eight years ago.now retail sales account for about 20% of gross income.
The industry enjoyed six prosperous years beginning in 1980.since 1986 sales have languished at their $1.8 billion peak.
Aftereffects of the 1987 stock market crash head the list of reasons.competition has glutted the market with both skins and coats, driving prices down.
Aftereffects of the 1987 stock market crash head the list of reasons..In addition, competition has glutted the market with both skins and coats, driving prices down..The animal-rights movement hasn't helped sales..Warm winters over the past two years have trimmed demand, too, furriers complain.those who didn't move some production overseas suffer labor shortages.
Large furriers such as Antonovich Inc., Fur Vault Inc. and Evans Inc. all reported losses in their latest fiscal years.even those who have found a way to cope with the imports and the slump, fear that furs are losing part of their allure.
He contends that chasing consumers with low-priced imports will harm the industry in the long run by reducing the prestige of furs.Mr. Rosen responds: "Whatever people want to buy, I'll sell..The name of the game is to move goods.
Four workers at GTE Corp. 's headquarters have been diagnosed as having hepatitis.city health officials are investigating whether a cafeteria worker may have exposed hundreds of other GTE employees to the viral infection.
GTE shut down its cafeteria Tuesday afternoon.testing determined that at least one cafeteria worker employed by GTE's private food vending contractor, ARA Services Inc., was suffering from a strain of the virus.
GTE shut down its cafeteria Tuesday afternoon.testing determined that at least one cafeteria worker employed by GTE's private food vending contractor, ARA Services Inc., was suffering from a strain of the virus.
From a public health point of view we're relieved.hepatitis A is rarely life-threatening.
because hepatitis A is rarely life-threatening.It's a double-edged sword.
It's a double-edged sword though.it is also the most contagious kind of hepatitis.
because hepatitis A is rarely life-threatening.because it is the most contagious kind of hepatitis.
We're strongly recommending that anyone who has eaten in the cafeteria this month have the shot.that means virtually everyone who works here.
he pledged that "rates will have to remain high for some time to come.boosting base rates to 15%.
Two weeks after boosting base rates to 15%, he pledged that "rates will have to remain high for some time to come.Mr. Lawson made it clear that he would be watching exchange rates carefully.
In reaffirming the current monetary policy of using high interest rates to fight inflation and shore up the pound, Mr. Lawson dismissed other approaches to managing the economy.Mr. Lawson dismissed the possibility of imposing direct credit controls on Britain's financial system.
the hefty drop last month indicates that the economy isn't slowing down as much as hoped -- despite a doubling of interest rates over the last 16 months.lower joblessness is generally good news.
Unemployment in September dropped to 1,695,000, the lowest level since 1980.average earnings in Britain were up 8.75% in August over the previous year.
that "demand pressures were even more buoyant than had been appreciated.the British economy was heating up last year.
that "demand pressures were even more buoyant than had been appreciated.the British economy was heating up last year.
that "the markets now appear to have steadied.the "nasty jolt" of the 190.58-point plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average a week ago.
that the experience owed nothing to the particular problems of the British economy.the New York market plunge prompted a 70.5-point drop in the London Financial Times-Stock Exchange 100 Share Index.
Mr. Leigh-Pemberton declared "that the experience owed nothing to the particular problems of the British economy.he pointed out that compared with the U.S. market, the U.K. has far fewer highly leveraged junk-bond financings.
Discussing future monetary arrangements, Mr. Lawson repeated the Thatcher government's commitment to join the exchange rate mechanism of the European Monetary System.he didn't indicate when.
Hewlett-Packard Co. became the first company world-wide to announce a product based on the chip earlier this month.it won't start shipping the computers until early next year.
the company's factories are already beginning to produce the machine.that it should be available in Europe by December.
the company's factories are already beginning to produce the machine.that it should be available in Europe by December.
that Europeans will have these machines in their offices.Americans do.
The new chip "is a very big step in computing.it is important that Olivetti be one of the first out on the market with this product.
The new chip "is a very big step in computing.it is important that Olivetti be one of the first out on the market with this product.
Olivetti's restructuring last fall and its introduction of new products will begin to bear fruit with an earnings rebound next year.Olivetti's profits tumbled 40% in the first half of this year.
Olivetti's restructuring last fall and its introduction of new products will begin to bear fruit with an earnings rebound next year.it can fulfill its promise to deliver the new machines by December.
The Intel 486 chip can process 15 million instructions per second, or MIPS.Intel's previous 386 chip could handle only 3 to 6 MIPS.
The machines will cost around $16,250 on average in Europe.Olivetti plans to sell the CP486 computer in the U.S. starting next year through Olivetti USA and through its ISC/Bunker Ramo unit.
Social Security benefits will rise 4.7% next year to keep pace with inflation.Supplemental Security Income payments to the disabled will rise 4.7%.
Social Security benefits will rise 4.7% next year to keep pace with inflation.The inflation adjustment means that the maximum annual level of earnings subject to the wage tax that generates revenue for the Social Security trust fund will rise to $50,400 in 1990 from $48,000 this year.
Sales growth in the quarter was slowed by mounting pressure from groups of buyers, such as hospitals, to hold down prices.Suppliers were hurt by the stronger U.S. dollar.
In some cases, competition has squeezed margins.Becton, Dickinson & Co. faces stiff competition from a Japanese supplier in the important syringe market.
The Franklin Lakes, N.J., company is expected to report sales growth of only 5% to 6%, but should still maintain earnings growth of 10%, says Jerry E. Fuller, an analyst with Duff & Phelps Inc..Among the first of the group to post results, Abbott Laboratories said third-quarter net income jumped 14% to $196 million, or 88 cents a share, from $172 million, or 76 cents a share, a year earlier..Sales for the company, based in Abbott Park, Ill., rose 8.3% to $1.31 billion from $1.21 billion..Baxter International Inc. yesterday reported net climbed 20% in the third period to $102 million, or 34 cents a share, from $85 million, or 28 cents a share, a year earlier..Sales for the Deerfield, Ill., company rose 5.8% to $1.81 billion from $1.71 billion.not every company expects to report increased earnings.
full-year earnings may be off 33 cents a share.the company removed a catheter from the market.
that third-party pressures to reduce health costs will continue to bedevil companies' bottom lines.Takeover speculation may ease.
you're going to see the stocks probably wane as well.that wanes.
Medical-supply houses are expected to report earnings increases of about 15% on average for the third quarter, despite sales increases of less than 10% But not every company expects to report increased earnings.Hospitals companies are reporting improved earnings.
Bolstered by strong performances by its psychiatric hospitals, National Medical Enterprises Inc., Los Angeles, reported net income of $50 million, or 65 cents a share, for the first quarter ended Aug. 31, up from $41 million, or 56 cents a share, a year earlier.Humana Inc., Louisville, Ky reported favorable results, with net income of $66.7 million, or 66 cents, in the fourth quarter ended Aug. 31, up from $58.2 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier.
Most important, hospital admission rates are stabilizing after several years of decline.companies have sold off many of their smaller, less-profitable hospitals and have completed painful restructurings.
Most important, hospital admission rates are stabilizing after several years of decline.Humana's revenues are being boosted by large increases in enrollments in the company's health maintenance organizations.
The number of people receiving regular state benefits in the week ended Sept. 30 decreased to a seasonally adjusted 2,202,000, or 2.2% of those covered by unemployment insurance, from 2,205,000 the previous week.when the insured unemployment rate was 2.2%.
the unusually high number of initial claims for state unemployment benefits reflects the impact of Hurricane Hugo on southern states, particularly North Carolina and South Carolina.The figure may reflect initial claims filed by striking Nynex Corp. workers who have become eligible for unemployment benefits.
they were troubled by signs of flat U.S. orders and a slowdown in the rate of gain in foreign orders.the second-largest computer maker had prepared Wall Street for a poor quarter.
Digital said a shift in its product mix toward low-end products and strong growth in workstation sales yielded lower gross margins.A spokesman said margins for the company's service business narrowed somewhat because of heavy investments made in that sector.
there won't be a lot of revenue contribution at the high end.the new mainframe products kick in.
Until the new mainframe products kick in, there won't be a lot of revenue contribution at the high end.that's hurt us.
Until the new mainframe products kick in, there won't be a lot of revenue contribution at the high end.that's hurt us.
The lack of a strong product at the high end of Digital's line was a significant drag on sales.unfavorable currency translations were a factor in the quarter.
DEC shares rose $1.375 to $89.75 apiece in consolidated New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday.that against the backdrop of a nearly 40-point rise in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, that shouldn't necessarily be taken as a sign of great strength.
Margins will remain under pressure.when the new mainframe does ship, I'm not sure it will be a big winner.
and I'm not sure it will be a big winner.the new mainframe does ship.
and I'm not sure it will be a big winner.the new mainframe does ship.
he was revising his estimate for DEC's current year from $8.20 a share to "well below $8.he hasn't settled on a final number.
DEC "drew down its European backlog" and had flat world-wide orders overall.overall revenues were stronger.
earnings growth was fueled by strong sales in Latin America, the Far East and Europe.Results were bolstered by "a very meaningful increase in operating profit at Colgate's U.S. business.
We've done a lot to improve (U.S.) results.a lot more will be done.
Colgate Palmolive Co. reported third-quarter net income rose 27%, bolstered by strong sales in its Latin American business and surprisingly healthy profits from U.S. operations.Colgate Wednesday finalized an agreement with MacroChem Corp., a tiny dental products and pharmaceutical concern based in Billerica, Mass., to market in the U.S. four of MacroChem's FDA-approved dental products.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. unveiled a sweetened pension and early-retirement program for management that it hopes will enable it to save $450 million in the next year.AT&T said net income rose 19% in the third quarter.
Sales of long-distance services, an extremely competitive market, rose 6.4%.the growth was partly offset by lower equipment sales and rentals and price cuts on some products.
Analysts hailed the sweetened pension package, which they said had been the subject of rumors for several months.other analysts expressed disappointment that the cost-cutting move won't result in even greater earnings growth.
This is a good move.it only gets you to where people's expectations already are," in terms of earnings growth.
the special retirement option will increase fourth-quarter expenses.the amount can't be determined until it knows how many managers opt to retire.
the amount can't be determined.it knows how many managers opt to retire.
Westridge Capital Management Inc. takes a back seat to no one.it comes to buying and selling shares.
When it comes to buying and selling shares, Westridge Capital Management Inc. takes a back seat to no one.But wait a second..Westridge Capital is an index fund -- the type of stolid long-term investor whose goal is to be nothing more than average.
simply buying.and holding stocks in the correct mix.
These big investors have flocked to indexing.relatively few "active" stock pickers have been able to consistently match the returns of the S&P 500 or other bellwethers, much less beat it.
These big investors have flocked to indexing because relatively few "active" stock pickers have been able to consistently match the returns of the S&P 500 or other bellwethers, much less beat it.the fees investors pay for indexing run a few pennies for each $100 of assets -- a fraction of the cost of active managers.
That's.computers do most of the work, and low trading activity keeps a lid on commission costs.
because computers do most of the work.low trading activity keeps a lid on commission costs.
Indexing for the most part has involved simply buying and then holding stocks in the correct mix to mirror a stock market barometer, such as Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, and match its performance.today, indexing is moving from a passive investment strategy to an increasingly active one.
they have developed "enhanced" indexing strategies that are intended to outperform the market as much as three percentage points.index-fund managers are no longer satisfied with merely being average.
Indexing has been the most single successful investment concept in the last decade.the index money has been just sort of sitting there.
With today's computer-driven program trading techniques, index funds can trade back and forth between stock-index futures and the actual stocks making up indexes such as the S&P 500.Futures and options make it possible to build "synthetic" index funds that don't actually own a single share of stock, but can produce returns that match or exceed the broad stock market.
index funds now hold about 20% of the stock owned by pension funds.tripling in size in the past five years.
getting a free toaster.you open an account.
getting a free toaster.you open an account.
that indexing's rapid growth is slowing, particularly for those "plain vanilla" funds that mirror the S&P 500 A further problem is razor-thin profits.indexers have been looking for ways to give investors something more than the average for their money.
As a result, indexers have been looking for ways to give investors something more than the average for their money.many have been successful, as in the case of the index fund operated by hyper-trader Westridge Capital.
The firm sometimes buys S&P 500 futures.they are selling at a discount to the actual stocks.
The firm sometimes buys S&P 500 futures when they are selling at a discount to the actual stocks, and will switch back and forth between stocks and stock-index futures to take advantages of any momentary price discrepencies.Mr. Carder goes through periods when he buys stocks in conjunction with options to boost returns and protect against declines.
Mr. Carder also goes through periods when he buys stocks in conjunction with options to boost returns and protect against declines.in some months, he buys stock-index futures and not stocks at all.
The firm sometimes buys S&P 500 futures when they are selling at a discount to the actual stocks, and will switch back and forth between stocks and stock-index futures to take advantages of any momentary price discrepencies.Big indexer Bankers Trust Co uses futures in a strategy that on average has added one percentage point to its enhanced fund's returns.
You're buying the S&P.you always want to hold the cheapest form of it.
Big indexer Bankers Trust Co. also uses futures in a strategy that on average has added one percentage point to its enhanced fund's returns..J. Thomas Allen, president of Pittsburgh-based Advanced Investment Management Inc., agrees it's a good idea to jump between the S&P 500 stocks and futures.some indexers make little or no use of futures, saying that these instruments present added risks for investors.
the futures markets have a problem.those products could have a problem.
These guarantee protection against stock market declines.still passing along most gains.
to pay back, say, $95 of every $100 invested for a year.the market goes much lower.
this can avoid weak sisters.but can hurt when a company like Chrysler Corp. rebounds.
but also can hurt.a company like Chrysler Corp. rebounds.
but also can hurt.a company like Chrysler Corp. rebounds.
Other funds have been designed to concentrate on stocks in a geographic area in order to encourage local investment.Pennsylvania State Employees Retirement System has about $130 million invested in a fund of 244 companies that are either Pennsylvania-based or have 25% of their work forces in the state.
Short interest on the New York Stock Exchange declined for the second consecutive month, this time 4.2%.the American Stock Exchange reported its third consecutive record month of short interest.
For the year-earlier month, the Big Board reported 461,539,056 shares, indicating a 13.5% year-to-year rise.the Amex reported 36,015,194 shares, a 48% leap.
that the stock's price will decline.that they can buy the shares back later at a lower price for return to the lender.
Traders who sell short borrow stock and sell it.and that they can buy the shares back at a lower price for return to the lender.
some investors consider an increase in short interest bullish.a substantial short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's price will decline.
an increase in short interest bullish.the borrowed shares eventually must be bought back.
Although a substantial short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock's price will decline, some investors consider an increase in short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually must be bought back.Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks may be caused partly by arbitraging.
The level of negative sentiment measured by the Big Board short interest ratio slipped to 3.36 from last month's 3.38.that the ratio has weakened in value as an indicator.
that the ratio has weakened in value as an indicator.options and other products can be used to hedge short positions.
Short interest in International Business Machines Corp. plunged to 1,425,035 shares from 2,387,226 shares a month earlier.closely watched is Exxon Corp., where short interest slid to 4,469,167 shares from 5,088,774.
Your Oct. 12 editorial "Pitiful, Helpless Presidency?" correctly states that I was critical of the Bush administration's failure to have any plan in place to respond in a timely fashion to the opportunities to oust Manuel Noriega presented by the attempted military coup on Oct. 3.You are absolutely wrong in opining that this position is some kind of "flip-flop," something newly arrived at as a result of reading the opinion polls.
public opinion about Gen. Noriega is where it is in large measure because of my investigation of his years of involvement in narcotics smuggling (and simultaneous work as a U.S. operative).you may have forgotten.
It was during those hearings that the nation first learned the breadth and depth of Gen. Noriega's criminality, and of his enduring relationships with a variety of U.S. government agencies.Those hearings highlighted how Gen. Noriega was able to use his relationships with these agencies to delay U.S. action against him, and to exploit the administration's obsession with overthrowing the Sandinistas to protect his own drug-dealing.
to put Gen. Noriega on the shelf.Nicaragua was settled.
Our government did nothing regarding Gen. Noriega's drug business and substantial criminal involvement.the first priority was the Contra war.
After years of hesitation, economic and political reform was embraced at the end of 1986.ringing declarations have yet to be translated into much action.
Mr. Chan, now 64 years old, invented a fountain pen he and his family produced from plastic waste.he marketed glue.
he was accused of conducting illegal business and possessing illegal materials.his operation was registered and used only scrap.
to change.Vietnam's economic reforms gathered pace.
Things were supposed to change when Vietnam's economic reforms gathered pace.for awhile they did.
Newspapers published articles about him.he was hailed as "the tire king.
they lost.I won.
they lost for the second time.I showed it was from my own brain.
they lost for the second time.I showed it was from my own brain.
When I showed it was from my own brain, they lost for the second time.a few days later the police accused him of stealing electricity, acquiring rubber without permission and buying stolen property.
to leave.the house and contents were confiscated.
In 1988 district authorities allowed Mr. Chan to resume work.the sixth congress formally endorsed family-run private enterprise.
Come daybreak, eight family members and two other workers unroll a sheet of raw rubber that covers the floor of the house and spills out onto the street.The primitive operations burst out the back door into a small courtyard, where an ancient press squeezes rubber solution into a flat strip and newly made tires are cooled in a bathtub filled with water.
where an ancient press squeezes rubber solution into a flat strip.newly made tires are cooled in a bathtub filled with water.
Mr. Chan talks optimistically of expanding, maybe even moving into the import-export field.First he has unfinished business.
they released only one of his machines.district authorities allowed him to resume manufacturing.
They didn't return the rubber stocks that represent his capital.did they return his house and contents.
When district authorities allowed him to resume manufacturing, they released only one of his machines..They didn't return the rubber stocks that represent his capital..Nor did they return his house and contents, which he values at about $44,000.He wants to recover more than just his property.
Nguyen Ngoc seemed an obvious choice.the Vietnamese Writers Association was looking for a new editor to reform its weekly newspaper, Van Nghe.
He had lost his official position in the association in he early 1980s.he questioned the intrusion of politics into literature.
Circulation soared.the weekly went way beyond standard literary themes to cover Vietnamese society and its ills.
Circulation soared.the weekly went way beyond standard literary themes to cover Vietnamese society and its ills.
Another described how tax-collection officials in Thanh Hoa province one night stormed through homes and confiscated rice from starving villagers.The newspaper ran a series of controversial short stories by Nguyen Huy Thiep, a former history teacher.
only her friendship with party leaders, including Nguyen Van Linh, then Ho Chi Minh City party secretary, kept her out of jail.she rode over regulations.
Actually, 67-year-old Mrs. Thi is about as poor as almost everyone else in this impoverished land.She has turned Hochiminh City Food into a budding conglomerate , but the company itself remains state-owned.
She has indeed turned Hochiminh City Food into a budding conglomerate.the company itself remains state-owned.
Standard & Poor's Corp. is reviewing debt issued by 12 California counties.there are potential isolated problems.
preliminary estimates suggest that losses should not have a significant impact on most insurers' financial condition.it "raises concerns about potentially substantial risks" longer-term.
Western Digital Corp. reported a net loss of $2.7 million, or nine cents a share, for its first quarter ended Sept. 30, citing factors as varied as hurricane damage, an advance in graphics technology and the strengthening dollar.he expects the company to be profitable in the current quarter.
millions of dollars in first-quarter revenue were lost.the plant itself wasn't damaged.
Western Digital's plant in Puerto Rico was affected by Hurricane Hugo, losing three days' production because of the storm millions of dollars in first-quarter revenue were lost.the first-quarter loss heavily reflected a rapid change in graphics technology that left reseller channels with too many of the old computer graphics boards and too few new monitors compatible with the new graphics boards.
Western Digital has reacted swiftly to the movement to video graphics array, VGA, graphics technology from the old enhanced graphics adapter, EGA.Other makers of video controller equipment were caught in the EGA-VGA shift.
Other makers of video controller equipment also were caught in the EGA-VGA shift.we were able to respond much more quickly.
Other makers of video controller equipment also were caught in the EGA-VGA shift but we were able to respond much more quickly.our stock is grossly undervalued.
the company has cut operating expenses by about 10% over the last few quarters.maintaining research and development at about 8% to 9% of sales.
Graphics, communications and peripheral control chips were combined.increasingly, multiple functions are being governed by a single chip.
Western Digital is strengthening development of laptop parts.smaller and more powerful computers continue to be the focus of the industry.
About half of Western Digital's business is overseas.Mr. Johnson expects that proportion to continue.
Plans to dissolve many of the trade barriers within Europe in 1992 creates significant opportunities for the company.Western Digital already manufactures there.
Until now, BNL's top managers and its directors have been appointed by a Treasury decree.under the bank's proposed statutes, an assembly of shareholders must approve board members.
But under the bank's proposed statutes, an assembly of shareholders must approve board members.In a related move, the bank proposed that board representation be linked more closely to the bank's new shareholding structure.
Assets owned or managed rose 20% to $45 billion.mutual fund sales rose 45% in the quarter to $923 million.
Minpeco S.A. has proposed a deal to settle its huge claim against the troubled Texas oil men.the Hunt brothers' personal bankruptcy cases sputter into their second year.
As the Hunt brothers' personal bankruptcy cases sputter into their second year, Minpeco S.A. has proposed a deal to settle its huge claim against the troubled Texas oil men.the plan only threatens to heighten the tension and confusion already surrounding the cases that were filed in September 1988.
it is willing to settle for up to $65.7 million from each brother.the actual amount would probably be much less.
W. Herbert Hunt has agreed to the Peruvian mineral concern's proposal.the proposal must be approved by federal Judge Harold C. Abramson.
Nelson Bunker Hunt is considering it.he won't do it if the proposal jeopardizes a tentative settlement he has reached with the Internal Revenue Service.
he won't do it.the proposal jeopardizes a tentative settlement he has reached with the Internal Revenue Service.
A similiar proposal has been made in the W. Herbert Hunt case.he and the IRS are at odds over the size of the non-dischargable debt he would have to pay to the government from future earnings.
a "volcano" of litigation.the Manufacturers Hanover Corp. unit attempts to force such a plan through the court.
it wouldn't pursue such litigation.its settlement plan in the W. Herbert Hunt case is approved by Judge Abramson.
Minpeco attorney Thomas Gorman decribed the plan as one step toward an overall settlement of the W. Herbert Hunt case.Hugh Ray, attorney for Manufacturers Hanover, called it "silly" and said he would fight it in court.
The purchase price will be established.Banc One has an opportunity to study the quality of the assets.
Individual investors pulled money from the stock market after its big drop last Friday and put the money into funds.Insitutional investors reacted to the steep decline in yields on direct money-market instruments following the stock-market decline last Friday.
At the auction of six-month U.S. Treasury bills on Monday, the average yield fell to 7.61% from 7.82%.certificates of deposit on average posted lower yields in the week ended Tuesday.
The 235 general-purpose funds increased $2.53 billion to $116.56 billion.96 broker-dealer funds increased $1.3 billion to $154.05 billion.
Speaking to reporters this week.Bank Bumiputra's shareholders approved a rescue plan.
heavy lending to the property sector rocked the bank.property prices in Malaysia plummeted in 1984-85.
the bank couldn't wait any longer for prices to recover and for borrowers to service their loans.the bank's board decided to make 1.23 billion Malaysian dollars (US$457 million) in provisions for interest payments from loans previously recorded as revenue but never actually received by the bank, and to submit a bailout package to replenish the bank's paid-up capital.
most of Bank Bumiputra's nonperforming loans will have been fully provided for and the bank will be on track to report a pretax profit of between M$160 million and M$170 million for the fiscal year ending March 31.the plan is approved.
most of Bank Bumiputra's nonperforming loans will have been fully provided for.the bank will be on track to report a pretax profit of between M$160 million and M$170 million for the fiscal year ending March 31.
For the previous financial year, the bank would have reported a pretax profit of M$168 million.it hadn't made provisions for the nonperforming loans.
Malaysia's Banking Secrecy Act prohibited the bank from identifying delinquent borrowers.public documents indicate 10% or more of the bank's provisions were made for foregone interest on a M$200 million loan to Malaysia's dominant political party, the United Malays National Organization, to build its convention and headquarters complex in Kuala Lumpur.
At the end of the exercise, the cash injection from Petronas will increase the bank's paid-up capital to M$1.15 billion.virtually being wiped out by the new provisions.
Ms. Ehman opened her mind to Democratic politics.the Supreme Court opened the door this year to new restrictions on abortion.
Ms. Ehman opened her mind to Democratic politics.the Supreme Court opened the door this year to new restrictions on abortion.
Polls bear out this warning.after a decade of increased Republican influence here, the new politics of abortion have contributed to a world turned upside down for Mr. Courter.
Republicans risk losing not only the governorship but also the assembly next month.he closes the gap.
New Jersey's own highest court remains a liberal bulwark against major restrictions on abortion.the U.S. Supreme Court ruling, Webster vs..Missouri, has engaged voters across the nation who had been insulated from the issue.
A recent pro-choice rally in Trenton drew thousands.in a major reversal, Congress is defying a presidential veto and demanding that Medicaid abortions be permitted in cases of rape and incest.
you wouldn't be here.Webster hadn't happened.
We could have shouted from the rooftops about Courter.no one would have heard us.
Abortion alone can't explain this shift.New Jersey is a model of how so personal an issue can become a baseline of sorts in judging a candidate.
By a 2-to-1 ratio, voters appear more at ease with Mr. Florio's stance on abortion.polls indicate his lead widens when the candidates are specifically linked to the issue.
his lead widens.the candidates are specifically linked to the issue.
his lead widens.the candidates are specifically linked to the issue.
The Camden County congressman still carries himself with a trademark "I'm-coming-down-your-throat" intensity.at a pause in Newark's Columbus Day parade recently, he was dancing with his wife in the middle of the avenue in the city's old Italian-American ward.
he has prepared himself methodically for this moment, including deciding in recent years he could no longer support curbs on federal funding for Medicaid abortions.losing by fewer than 1,800 votes in the 1981 governor's race.
how are you going to say an upscale woman who can drive to the hospital or clinic in a nice car has a constitutional right and someone who is not in great shape financially does not.you're going to be consistent and say it is a constitutionally protected right.
The Camden County congressman still carries himself with a trademark "I'm-coming-down-your-throat" intensity.Mr. Courter seems a shadow of the confident hawk who defended Oliver North before national cameras at Iran-Contra hearings two years ago.
he erred by stating his "personal" opposition to abortion instead of assuring voters that he wouldn't impose his views on "policy" as governor.by stepping outside the state's pro-choice tradition, Mr. Courter aggravates fears that he is too conservative as well on more pressing concerns such as auto insurance rates and the environment.
He hurt himself further this summer by bringing homosexual issues into the debate.by wavering on this issue and abortion, he has weakened his credibility in what is already a mean-spirited campaign on both sides.
Like many of his colleagues, he didn't serve in Vietnam in the 1960s.embraced a hawkish defense and foreign policy.
Jack Kemp and the writers Irving Kristol and George Gilder were influences.Mr. Courter's own conservative credentials proved useful to the current New Jersey GOP governor, Thomas Kean, in the 1981 Republican primary here.
The same partnership is now crucial to Mr. Courter's fortunes.the abortion issue is only a reminder of the gap between his record and that of the more moderate, pro-choice Gov. Kean.
Gov. Kean was approving increased income and sales taxes at home and overseeing a near doubling in the size of New Jersey's budget in his eight years in office.the Warren County congressman pursued an anti-government, anti-tax agenda in Washington.
Gov. Kean was approving increased income and sales taxes at home and overseeing a near doubling in the size of New Jersey's budget in his eight years in office.the Warren County congressman pursued an anti-government, anti-tax agenda in Washington.
Kean forces play down any differences with Mr. Courter.this history makes it harder for the conservative to run against government.
He is warm and polished before a Puerto Rican Congress in Asbury Park.minutes after promising to appoint Hispanics to high posts in state government, he is unable to say whether he has ever employed any in his congressional office.
Yet he is unable to say whether he has ever employed any in his congressional office.promising to appoint Hispanics to high posts in state government.
he recognizes a photograph of one of the founders and recalls time spent together in Camden.he is presented with a poster celebrating the organization's 20th anniversary.
In the opinion of many, he hasn't stopped running since.he declined a rematch with Gov. Kean in 1985.
Mr. Florio savors this vindication.at age 52, the congressman is also a product of his times and losses.
Mr. Florio savors this vindication.but at age 52, the congressman is a product of his times and losses.
He speaks for the death penalty.reading from Exodus 21.
Hard-hitting consultants match ads with Mr. Courter's team.Mr. Florio retools himself as the lean, mean Democratic fighting machine of the 1990s.
he scraps an old reference to Ozzie and Harriet.and quotes the Grateful Dead.
The Democratic lawmaker fits a pattern of younger reformers arising out of old machines.his ties to Camden remain a sore point because of the county's past corruption.
His campaign hierarchy is chosen from elsewhere in the state.faced with criticism of a sweetheart bank investment, he has so far blunted the issue by donating the bulk of his profits to his alma mater, Trenton State College.
Bill Wames Sr., 72, is Catholic too.I think the woman has the right to do with her body as she pleases.
ask my wife.you want more opinions.
The report was the brightest news the financial markets had seen.the stock market plunged more than 190 points last Friday.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied on the news.Bond prices jumped.
Bond prices also jumped.traders appeared to read the data as a sign that interest rates may fall.
Bond prices also jumped as traders appeared to read the data as a sign that interest rates may fall.many economists were not nearly as jubilant.
The climb in wholesale energy prices is certain to push up retail energy prices in the next few months, they warned.They said the dollar is leveling off after a rise this summer that helped to reduce the prices of imported goods.
We've had whopping declines in consumer energy prices in each of the past three months.at the wholesale level those are fully behind us now.
many analysts expected energy prices to rise at the consumer level too.wholesale energy prices shot up by a steep 6.5% last month.
many analysts expected energy prices to rise at the consumer level too.many economists were expecting the consumer price index to increase significantly more than it did.
As a result, many economists were expecting the consumer price index to increase significantly more than it did.retail energy prices declined 0.9% in September.
many expect some of the wholesale rise to be passed along to the consumer before the end of the year.analysts say competition will probably hold down increases in retail energy prices.
many expect some of the wholesale rise to be passed along to the consumer before the end of the year.some analysts insisted that the worst of the inflation is behind.
A run-up in world oil prices last winter sent consumer prices soaring at a 6.7% annual rate in the first five months of this year.the subsequent decline in energy prices has pulled the annual rate back down to 4.4%.
Back in 1987-88, business was operating at fairly tight capacity.businesses felt they could raise prices.
The steep climb in producer prices reported last Friday fostered pessimism about lower interest rates and contributed to the stock market's 6.9% plunge that day.In the past several days the U.S.'s central bank has allowed a key interest rate to fall slightly to try to stabilize the markets.
Fed policy makers have been wary of relaxing credit too much.they were still uncertain about the level of inflation in the economy.
Excluding the volatile categories of energy and food -- leaving what some economists call the core inflation rate.consumer prices rose only 0.2% in September.
Transportation costs actually fell 0.5%.housing costs gained only 0.1%.
Apparel prices rocketed up 1.7%.that was after three months of declines.
They dropped 0.4%.dealers continued to offer rebates to attract customers.
Consumer prices rose a surprisingly moderate 0.2% in September, pushed up mostly by a jump in clothing costs, the Labor Department reported.the Labor Department reported that average weekly earnings rose 0.3% in September, after adjusting for inflation, following a 0.7% decline in August.
that average weekly earnings rose 0.3% in September.adjusting for inflation, following a 0.7% decline in August.
the ski industry is trying to give itself a lift.watching interest in the sport plummet for years.
Some have built health spas, business centers and shopping villages.visitors have more to do than ski.
Across the country, resorts are using everything from fireworks to classical-music concerts to attract new customers.this week, the industry's efforts will go national for the first time when it unveils a $7 million advertising campaign.
And this week, the industry's efforts will go national for the first time.it unveils a $7 million advertising campaign.
Competition and mounting insurance and equipment costs have been the undoing of many resorts.another big problem has been the aging of baby boomers.
Competition and mounting insurance and equipment costs have been the undoing of many resorts.another big problem has been the aging of baby boomers.
Skiing, after all, has mainly been for the young and daring.many baby boomers have outgrown skiing or have too many family responsibilities to stick with the sport.
Ski school is great," cries out a tot, bundled in a snowsuit.he plows down a bunny slope.
Ski promotions have traditionally avoided the touchy issue of safety.the new commercials deal with it indirectly by showing a woman smiling as she tries to get up from a fall.
smiling.she tries to get up from a fall.
it's okay.you fall.
you'll wind up in a body cast.you slip.
normally, they only run ads hyping their own products and facilities.in these crunch times for the ski industry, some resorts, such as the Angel Fire, Red River and Taos ski areas in New Mexico, have even started shuttle-busing skiers to each other's slopes and next year plan to sell tickets good for all local lifts.
But in these crunch times for the ski industry, some resorts, such as the Angel Fire, Red River and Taos ski areas in New Mexico, have even started shuttle-busing skiers to each other's slopes and next year plan to sell tickets good for all local lifts.Many resorts are focusing more on the service side of their business.
many slopes are building nurseries, expanding ski schools and adding entertainment for kids.40% of skiers are parents.
or take turns skiing.one spouse stayed with the children.
To make skiing more convenient for time-strapped visitors, several resorts are buying or starting their own travel agencies..In one phone call, ski buffs can make hotel and restaurant reservations, buy lift tickets, rent ski equipment and sign up for lessons.resorts are adding other amenities, such as pricey restaurants, health spas and vacation packages with a twist.
And resorts are adding other amenities, such as pricey restaurants, health spas and vacation packages with a twist.During Winter Carnival week visitors at Sunday River in Maine can take a hot-air balloon ride.
to do.ski and sit in the bar.
The ski industry hopes to increase the number of skiers by 3.5 million to about 21.7 million in the next five years with its latest ads and promotions.some think that's being overly optimistic.
For one thing, it may be tough to attract people.skiing is still expensive.
a lift ticket can cost up to $35 a day.equipment prices are rising.
For one thing, it may be tough to attract people because skiing is still expensive: a lift ticket can cost up to $35 a day and equipment prices are rising.most vacationers still prefer a warm climate for their winter excursions.
I don't know if {the industry} could handle that kind of an increase.they could bring in that many new skiers.
Most people will come on the weekend, the slopes will be overcrowded.then these {new skiers} won't come back.
Most people will come on the weekend, the slopes will be overcrowded.and these {new skiers} won't come back.
They didn't play the third game of the World Series on Tuesday night as scheduled.they didn't play it on Wednesday or Thursday either.
They didn't play the third game of the World Series on Tuesday night as scheduled, and they didn't play it on Wednesday or Thursday either.you knew that, didn't you.
They didn't play the third game of the World Series on Tuesday night as scheduled, and they didn't play it on Wednesday or Thursday either.you knew that, didn't you.
that the stadium, damaged by Tuesday's earthquake, will be repaired by then.that people will be able to get there.
Like just about everything else, that remains to be seen..Aftershocks could intervene.at least, the law of averages should have swung to the favorable side.
It may seem trivial to worry about the World Series amid the destruction to the Bay Area wrought by Tuesday's quake.the name of this column is "On Sports," so I feel obliged to do so.
but the name of this column is "On Sports.I feel obliged to do so.
many people spontaneously arose and cheered.the tremor passed.
many people spontaneously arose and cheered.it had been a novel kind of pre-game show.
I thought You shouldn't have bothered.I'm sure, others did.
I'd slept through my only previous brush with natural disaster, a tornado 15 or so summers ago near Traverse City, Mich.I was unprepared for one reaction to such things: the urge to talk about them.
like I was on a station platform.a train went by.
that the disturbance would be brief.that ball would be played.
I was near the top of the stadium, and saw a steel girder bow six feet from where I sat.I stayed put for 10 or 15 minutes.
This is the World Series.I'm not gonna wimp out.
Dictates of good sense to the contrary not withstanding, the general inclination was to believe that the disturbance would be brief and that ball would be played.Here in the Global Village folks do not stay uninformed for long.
Electrical power was out in still-daylighted Candlestick Park.battery-operated radios and television sets were plentiful.
the announcement cited the power outage.it later was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend.
the announcement, made over police bullhorns, cited the power outage.but it was revealed that there also had been damage of the sort reported by my friend.
the announcement cited the power outage.that there had been damage of the sort reported by my friend.
TV reporters interviewed fans in the parking lots.a few feet away, others watched the interviews on their portable TVs.
At my hotel, the Westin, power was out, some interior plaster had broken loose.there had been water damage, but little else.
I expected him to say, "I told you so.he already was snoring.
My response was that sports rarely are important, only diverting.the quake merely highlighted that fact.
Flags fly at half-staff for the death of Bart Giamatti, the late baseball commissioner.now the Bay Bridge lies in ruins.
A Series that was shaping up as the dullest since the one-sided Detroit-over-San Diego go of 1984 has become memorable in the least fortunate way.its edge is lost.
It now will be played mostly for the record, and should be wrapped up as quickly as possible, without "off" days.I will never again complain about a rainout.
The disarray in the junk-bond market that began last month with a credit crunch at Campeau Corp. has offered commercial banks a golden opportunity to play a greater role in financing billion-dollar takeovers.two big New York banks seem to have kicked those chances away, for the moment, with the embarrassing failure of Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. to deliver $7.2 billion in bank financing for a leveraged buy-out of United Airlines parent UAL Corp.
it is natural for banks to try to expand beyond their bread-and-butter business of providing senior debt for buy-outs.the UAL collapse may tell you it's not going to work that easily.
Mr. Checchi's purchase of NWA was probably the most aggressive to date," with bank debt at 85% of the purchase price.that Citicorp's "failure to deliver" on its promise to raise the UAL bank debt for a labor-management buy-out group "is very distressing to potential users of a `highly-confident' letter from commercial banks.
His client, Mr. Davis, used just such a letter from Citicorp in pursuing UAL.Citicorp agreed to work with a competing UAL buy-out group.
the falloff in junk bonds may yet open new business opportunities to banks in structuring takeovers.that banks will have "to have enough discipline" not to make loans that are too risky.
that banks will have "to have enough discipline" not to make loans that are too risky.that fees from syndicating loans to other banks dropped 48%, to $21 million.
We didn't take part in a lot of deals.their credit quality was poor.
A Paramount spokesman says that decision was based on the financial, not political, drawbacks of junk bonds.some observers believe Paramount Chairman Martin Davis wanted to avoid the possible taint of being perceived as a corporate raider in his controversial bid for Time.
In the end, Mr. Davis used junk bonds.he could raise Paramount's bid to $200 a share.
Mr. Checchi's purchase of NWA was probably the most aggressive to date," with bank debt at 85% of the purchase price that Citicorp's "failure to deliver" on its promise to raise the UAL bank debt for a labor-management buy-out group "is very distressing to potential users of a `highly-confident' letter from commercial banks.The success of the NWA financing, and the failure of the UAL deal seem to highlight the important new role in takeover financing being played by Japanese banks.
Japanese banks accounted for 50% of the NWA bank debt, according to a report by Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner.it was broad-scale rejection by Japanese banks that helped seal the fate of the attempt to buy UAL.
The junk bond market became very jittery.there's a fear of a coming recession and the possible bankruptcy of LBO companies.
that the group, led by investor Malcolm I. Glazer, violated securities laws by failing to disclose plans to purchase 15% of the company's shares outstanding.that when the required Hart-Scott-Rodino filing eventually was made, it didn't disclose the group's alleged earlier violation of the so-called prior-notice requirements of the law.
and that it didn't disclose the group's alleged earlier violation of the so-called prior-notice requirements of the law.the required Hart-Scott-Rodino filing eventually was made.
Mr. Glazer couldn't immediately be reached to comment.when Harley last week publicly questioned the legality of the group's filing procedures, the Rochester, N.Y., investor said "we complied with every law," and he denied any wrongdoing.
But the Rochester, N.Y., investor said "we complied with every law," and he denied any wrongdoing.Harley last week publicly questioned the legality of the group's filing procedures.
But the Rochester, N.Y., investor said "we complied with every law.he denied any wrongdoing.
The nation's fourth-largest steelmaker earned $18.3 million, or 43 cents a share, compared with $61 million, or $1.70 a share, a year earlier, when the industry was enjoying peak demand and strong pricing.The earnings mark a significant drop from the second quarter's $45.3 million or $1.25 a share.
The earnings also mark a significant drop from the second quarter's $45.3 million or $1.25 a share.the earnings were well below analysts' expectations of about $1.16 a share.
The company attributed the earnings drop to lower volume related to seasonal demand and the soft consumer durable market, especially in the automotive sector.the company also lost orders because of prolonged labor talks in the second quarter.
The company attributed the earnings drop to lower volume related to seasonal demand and the soft consumer durable market, especially in the automotive sector.However, the company lost orders because of prolonged labor talks in the second quarter.
higher prices for galvanized and cold-rolled products offset lower prices for bar, hot-rolled and structural steel.its integrated steel sector was hurt by higher raw material, repair and maintenance, and labor costs.
its integrated steel sector was also hurt by higher raw material, repair and maintenance, and labor costs.the company's service center segment experienced much of the same demand and cost problems, as well as start-up costs associated with a coil processing facility in Chicago and an upgraded computer information system.
the company's short-term outlook is "clouded by uncertainties in the economy and financial markets.that steel mill bookings are up from early summer levels, and that he expects the company to improve its cost performance in the fourth quarter.
that steel mill bookings are up from early summer levels.that he expects the company to improve its cost performance in the fourth quarter.
the structures on which markets stand can be relatively inefficient and still perform their functions adequately.things are quiet (low volatility).
When things are quiet (low volatility), the structures on which markets stand can be relatively inefficient and still perform their functions adequately.when powerful forces start shaking the market's structure, the more "earthquake-resistant" it is, the better its chance for survival.
However the more "earthquake-resistant" it is, the better its chance for survival.powerful forces start shaking the market's structure.
However the more "earthquake-resistant" it is, the better its chance for survival.powerful forces start shaking the market's structure.
That structural lack is crucial.investors are the only source of market liquidity.
That structural lack is crucial because investors are the only source of market liquidity.liquidity is what markets need to damp quakes and aftershocks.
all market liquidity is gone.they halt trading.
all market liquidity is gone.they halt trading.
When they halt trading, all market liquidity is gone.when any component of the market -- cash, futures or options -- loses liquidity, the price discovery system (the way prices are determined) becomes flawed or is lost entirely for a time.
And the price discovery system (the way prices are determined) becomes flawed or is lost entirely for a time.any component of the market -- cash, futures or options -- loses liquidity.
seismic" tremors of fear -- much like the shock waves created by an earthquake -- coursed through the market and increased the market's volatility.that happened.
Panic frequently results in irrational behavior.in financial markets, irrational behavior is sometimes translated into catastrophe.
it is crucial that as much information about transaction prices and the supply-demand curve (buy and sell orders at various prices) be made available to all, not just to market makers.market tremors start.
it is crucial that as much information about transaction prices and the supply-demand curve (buy and sell orders at various prices) be made available to all, not just to market makers.market tremors start.
Because of a lack of information and access, many investors -- including the very ones whose buying power could restore stability and damp volatility -- are forced to stand on the sidelines.they are most needed, because of their ignorance of important market information.
Market makers buy what investors wish to sell; their business is reselling these unwanted positions as quickly as possible to other investors, and at a profit.the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction.
As a result the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction.any one customer may purchase immediacy by selling to a market maker.
As a result the market as a whole remains in the same circumstances it was before the transaction.it can be argued that increasing capital commitments by market makers (a result of some post-1987 crash studies) also increases market volatility.
increasing capital commitments by market makers (a result of some post-1987 crash studies).that increasing capital commitments by market makers (a result of some post-1987 crash studies) increases market volatility.
that increasing capital commitments by market makers (a result of some post-1987 crash studies) also increases market volatility.the more securities are held by market makers at any given time, the more selling pressure is overhanging the market.
I'm not certain.I am sure we need to maximize our "earthquake" protection by making certain that our market structures let investors add their mighty shock-damping power to our nation's markets.
Some may have forgotten what it's like to invest during a recession.some younger ones may never have experienced.
Different tactics are called for.losing money becomes easier and making money becomes tougher.
as losing money becomes easier.making money becomes tougher.
these defensive steps can be delayed.a recession is clearly at hand.
It's tempting to think these defensive steps can be delayed until a recession is clearly at hand.that may not be possible, because recessions often take investors by surprise.
But that may not be possible.recessions often take investors by surprise.
they hit fast.they do hit.
Mr. Wyss advises people who do that "the best thing to be in is long that is, 20-year to 30-year Treasury bonds.he himself doesn't expect a recession soon.
They are worth more.they pay higher interest than newly issued bonds do.
That effect holds true for both short-term and long-term bonds.short-term bonds can't rise too much, because everyone knows they will be redeemed at a preset price fairly soon.
But short-term bonds can't rise too much.everyone knows they will be redeemed at a preset price fairly soon.
That effect holds true for both short-term and long-term bonds..But short-term bonds can't rise too much, because everyone knows they will be redeemed at a preset price fairly soon..Long-term bonds, with many years left before maturity, swing more widely in price.not just any bonds will do.
investors fret about whether companies will have enough money to pay their debts.times get tougher.
As times get tougher, investors fret about whether companies will have enough money to pay their debts.most corporate bonds are callable.
that a corporation can buy back its bonds by paying investors the face value (plus, in some cases, a sweetener).a specified amount of time has passed.
it makes sense for corporations to do just that.interest rates have dropped.
it makes sense for corporations to do just that.interest rates have dropped.
for corporations to do just that.they save on interest costs.
they then save on interest costs.the investors are left stranded with money to reinvest at a time when interest rates are puny.
junk bonds are likely to be the worst of all.corporate bonds are bad in recessions.
It's an "absolute necessity" to get out of junk bonds.a recession is in the offing.
It's an "absolute necessity" to get out of junk bonds.a recession is in the offing.
Such bonds are very sensitive to the downside.this could be a disaster.
Municipal bonds are generally a bit safer than corporate bonds in a recession, but not as safe as bonds issued by the federal government.like corporates, many municipal bonds are callable.
Municipal bonds are generally a bit safer than corporate bonds in a recession, but not as safe as bonds issued by the federal government.a few experts, going against the consensus, don't think bonds would help investors even if a recession is in the offing.
bonds would help investors.a recession is in the offing.
it's going to be very hard to reverse.the downturn comes.
holding fewer stocks than usual.and shunning bonds.
he doubts that interest rates will fall much any time soon.he sees a "5% to 6% base rate of inflation in the economy.
Investors should be cautious," holding fewer stocks than usual and also shunning bonds.investors "probably should be carrying a very high level of cash.
Instead, Mr. Beach says, investors "probably should be carrying a very high level of cash.Greg Confair, president of Sigma Financial Inc. in Allentown, Pa recommends that investors go heavily for cash.
He believes that the task facing Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan is so difficult that it resembles "juggling a double-bladed ax and a buzz saw.in a sense, that's the kind of task individuals face in deciding what to do about stocks -- the mainstay of most serious investors' portfolios.
For people who can ride out market waves through good times and bad, stocks have been rewarding long-term investments.because no one knows for sure just when a recession is coming, some analysts think investors shouldn't even worry too much about timing.
Moreover some analysts think investors shouldn't even worry too much about timing.no one knows for sure just when a recession is coming.
Frequent trading runs up high commission costs.the in-and-outer might miss the sudden spurts that account for much of the stock market's gains over time.
that people who jump in and out of the stock market need to be right about 70% of the time to beat a buy-and-hold strategy..Frequent trading runs up high commission costs..And the in-and-outer might miss the sudden spurts that account for much of the stock market's gains over time.few investors are able to sit tight when they are convinced a recession is coming.
Still, few investors are able to sit tight.they are convinced a recession is coming.
According to Ned Davis, president of Ned Davis Research Inc. in Nokomis, Fla., the average drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average was about 21%.the decrease began an average of six months before a recession officially started.
and the decrease began.a recession officially started.
By the time a recession is "official" (two consecutive quarters of declining gross national product), much of the damage to stocks has already been done.in the typical case, the recession is already half over.
stocks typically begin to rise again.a recession ends.
About six months before a recession ends, stocks typically begin to rise again.investors anticipate a recovery.
The average recession lasts about a year.Unfortunately recessions vary enough in length so that the average can't reliably be used to guide investors in timing stock sales or purchases.
Unfortunately, though, recessions vary enough in length.the average can't reliably be used to guide investors in timing stock sales or purchases.
Unfortunately, though, recessions vary enough in length so that the average can't reliably be used to guide investors in timing stock sales or purchases.whatever their advice about timing, none of these experts recommend jettisoning stocks entirely during a recession.
In good times they lag a bit.overall they provide superior performance.
Low P-E" stocks vastly outperform others "during a recession or bear market." In good times they lag a bit.but they provide superior performance.
Prof..Arbel urges investors to discard stocks in small companies..Small-company shares typically fall more than big-company stocks in a recession, he says.in any case, he argues, stocks of small companies are "almost as overpriced as they were Sept. 30, 1987, just before the crash.
And in any case stocks of small companies are "almost as overpriced as they were Sept. 30, 1987, just before the crash.stocks of small companies are selling for about 19 times cash flow.
That ratio is dangerously close to the ratio of 19.7 that prevailed before the 1987 stock-market crash.it's way above the ratio (7.5 times cash flow) that bigger companies are selling for.
and take medicine.they're sick.
there will be some great investment opportunities just when things seem the blackest.the recession does hit.
there will be some great investment opportunities.things seem the blackest.
Bond prices posted strong gains.investors went on a bargain hunt.
Bond prices posted strong gains as investors went on a bargain hunt.while the overall market improved, the new-issue junk-bond market continued to count casualties, even as junk-bond prices rose.
But the new-issue junk-bond market continued to count casualties.the overall market improved.
But the new-issue junk-bond market continued to count casualties.junk-bond prices rose.
it postponed a $220 million senior subordinated debenture offering by York International Corp.Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corp. scrambled to restructure and improve the potential returns on a $475 million debenture offering by Chicago & North Western Acquisition Corp. that was still being negotiated late last night.
Salomon Brothers Inc. has delayed Grand Union Co. 's $1.16 billion junk-bond offering.it restructures the transaction.
Everything is going through firehoops right now.{Chicago & North Western} is no exception.
the Chicago & North Western offering was restructured.several large insurance buyers right now are demanding equity as part of the package.
you want something extra.you're going to take the risk in this market.
Mr. Baldwin likes the offering.they're staying away from any junk security that isn't considered first rate for its class.
they don't view it as the best.they consider the Chicago & North Western issue to be good.
that inflation is moderating.the economy slows.
The Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose just 0.2% last month, slightly lower than some economists had expected.there were also rumors yesterday that several Japanese institutional investors were shifting their portfolios and buying long-term bonds while selling shorter-term Treasurys.
The Labor Department reported that consumer prices rose just 0.2% last month, slightly lower than some economists had expected.But there were rumors yesterday that several Japanese institutional investors were shifting their portfolios and buying long-term bonds while selling shorter-term Treasurys.
and buying long-term bonds.selling shorter-term Treasurys.
with two-year notes posting slight declines.three-year notes were slightly higher.
The discount rate on three-month Treasury bills rose to 7.56% from 7.51% Wednesday.the rate on six-month bills rose to 7.57% from 7.53%.
Short-term rates rose yesterday.the Treasury sold $9.75 billion of 52-week bills yesterday.
Short-term rates rose yesterday.the Treasury sold $9.75 billion of 52-week bills yesterday.
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value.higher bidding narrows the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
Thus, higher bidding narrows the investor's return.lower bidding widens it.
The percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year.the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
Petrolane Gas Service's 13 1/4% debentures traded at 102.trading around par earlier this week.
Petrolane Gas Service's 13 1/4% debentures traded at 102, after trading around par earlier this week.RJR's 13 1/2% subordinated debentures of 2001 were at 101 5/8 after trading at below par earlier this week.
and RJR's 13 1/2% subordinated debentures of 2001 were at 101 5/8.trading at below par earlier this week.
Activity was brisk in the high-grade general obligation market.a series of sell lists hit the Street and capped upward price movement in the sector.
According to market participants, the bonds were met with decent bids.the volume of paper left high grades in the 10-year and under maturity range unchanged to 0.05 percentage point higher in yield.
The debt of some California issuers pulled off lows reached after Tuesday's massive earthquake.market participants remained cautious.
California expects to rely on federal emergency funds and its $1.06 billion in general fund reserves to meet the estimated $500 million to $1 billion in damages resulting from the quake, according to a state official.It's unclear precisely how the state will rebuild its reserve.
It's also unclear precisely how the state will rebuild its reserve.that a bond offering for that purpose isn't anticipated.
Activity was brisk in the high-grade general obligation market Away from the general obligation sector, activity was modest.new issuance was slow.
Activity was brisk in the high-grade general obligation market Away from the general obligation sector, activity was modest.new issuance was slow.
there could be fairly heavy prepayments on the premium securities.the refinancing plan clears Congress.
In the current-coupon sector, a shift in the Treasury yield curve resulting from the better performance of long-dated issues over short-dated securities hurt major coupons.it will become more difficult to structure new derivative securities offerings.
Ginnie Mae 9% securities ended at 98 6/32, up 9/32.Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 9% securities were at 97 10/32, up 6/32.
The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 9.42% to a 12-year average life assumption.the spread above the Treasury 10-year note widened 0.03 percentage point to 1.48.
underwriters continued to crank out new real estate mortgage investment conduits structured when the yield curve was more favorable.Remic issuance may slow in the coming days because of the shift in the Treasury yield curve.
structured.the yield curve was more favorable.
British government bonds ended little changed.investors awaited an economic policy address last night by Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson.
The Treasury 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 was down 2/32 at 111 29/32 to yield 10.09%.the 11 3/4% notes due 1991 were unchanged at 98 19/32 to yield 12.94%.
In Japan, the bellwether No. 111 4.6% bond of 1998 ended off 0.03 at 95.72, to yield 5.32%.in West Germany, the 7% benchmark issue due October 1999 ended 0.05 point lower at 99.85 to yield 7.02%.
British Airways PLC, a crucial participant in the proposed buy-out of UAL Corp., washed its hands of the current efforts to revive a bid for the parent of United Airlines.the British carrier said it currently has no plans to participate in any new offer for UAL.
it currently has no plans to participate in any new offer for UAL.British Air officially withdrew its support for the previous $300-a-share bid in a terse statement that said "the original deal is closed.
Specifically, the British carrier said it currently has no plans to participate in any new offer for UAL.Company officials said that British Airways believes its involvement in the UAL buy-out ended last Friday.
its involvement in the UAL buy-out.which includes UAL's management and pilot union.
it wouldn't at some point reconsider participating in any new bid for UAL.they plan to take "no initiatives" to resurrect the transaction, and "aren't aware" of any restructured bid in the making.
The transaction has had a series of setbacks with no signs or statements from the buy-out group to indicate that any progress has taken place.the financing problems became known last Friday.
The transaction has had a series of setbacks with no signs or statements from the buy-out group to indicate that any progress has taken place.in response to the British Air decision, United's pilot union vowed to continue efforts to revive the buy-out.
In another setback yesterday, United's machinist union asked the Treasury Department to investigate whether certain aspects of the original buy-out proposal violated tax laws.there was one bright spot yesterday.
The United flight-attendants union agreed to negotiations that could lead to the flight attendants contributing concessions to a revived bid in exchange for an ownership stake.without the assurance of British Airways' financial backing, it will be tougher for the buy-out group to convince already-reluctant banks to make loan commitments for a revised bid.
Still, without the assurance of British Airways' financial backing, it will be tougher for the buy-out group to convince already-reluctant banks to make loan commitments for a revised bid.British Air's original investment represented 78% of the cash equity contribution for the bid.
We're in no way committed to a deal going through at all..We're not rushing into anything..We don't want to be party to a second rejection.British Air seemed to be distancing itself from the troubled transaction early in an effort to avoid any further embarrassment.
The original transaction fell through on the same day British Air shareholders approved the plan at a special meeting.the British succeeded in arranging the financing for its equity contribution.
Indeed, British Air seemed to be distancing itself from the troubled transaction early in an effort to avoid any further embarrassment.The carrier seemed eager to place blame on its American counterparts.
The {buy-out} consortium ceased to exist.our American partners were not capable of organizing the financing.
British Airways may have begun to have second thoughts about the transaction.the Transportation Department forced Northwest's Airlines' new owners to restructure the equity contribution of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines in that carrier.
The leaders expressed support for trying to revive the bid following a briefing Wednesday by the union's advisers, Lazard Freres & Co. and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind Wharton & Garrison.They unanimously re-elected Mr. Dubinsky, the union chairman who has led the pilots' 2 1/2-year fight to take control of the airline.
that it may take a while to come forward with a revised plan.they want to have firm bank commitments before launching a new bid.
to have firm bank commitments.launching a new bid.
The buy-out fell through.Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp., the lead banks in the transaction, failed to obtain $7.2 billion in financing needed for the plan.
The buy-out fell through.Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp., the lead banks in the transaction, failed to obtain $7.2 billion in financing needed for the plan.
Domestic wholesale sales rose 11.9% from a year earlier.foreign sales jumped 17.3%.
Sales of consumer goods rose 6.9% in the same period.sales of intermediate goods were up 13.8% from a year ago.
The plan was complete except for finishing touches.there was talk that it would be unveiled as early as yesterday.
The plan was complete except for finishing touches, and there was talk that it would be unveiled as early as yesterday.Senate Majority Leader George Mitchell (D., Maine), a vigorous opponent of the capital-gains tax cut, called the group to meet with him Wednesday night and again yesterday.
Sen. Mitchell urged them to desist.leaders of the dissident Democrats relented.
Having a proposal sponsored by Democrats would have given the president an advantage..Having only a Republican measure makes the task harder.Sen. Bob Packwood (R., Ore.), the lead sponsor of the Republican capital-gains amendment, predicted that the tax cut would be enacted this year.
a clear majority of senators back the tax reduction.that ultimately there would be enough senators to overcome any procedural hurdle the Democratic leadership might erect.
a clear majority of senators back the tax reduction.and that there would be enough senators to overcome any procedural hurdle the Democratic leadership might erect.
He said a clear majority of senators back the tax reduction and that ultimately there would be enough senators to overcome any procedural hurdle the Democratic leadership might erect.Sen. Mitchell, buoyed by his victory among fellow Democrats, strongly disagreed.
The president apparently will have only one bill to push, Sen. Packwood's.at least some of the dissident Democrats plan to support it.
I may want to offer additional amendments to improve it.the bill comes to the floor.
The exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year the asset was held.it reached a maximum of 35% after seven years.
individuals to exclude from income 5% of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year.taxpayers could chose to reduce their gains by an inflation index.
The Packwood plan would allow individuals to exclude from income 5% of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year.The Packwood plan would include a proposal that would create new tax benefits for individual retirement accounts.
In the latest nine months total coal sales rose to about 14.6 million tons from about 14.3 million tons a year earlier.long-term debt has been trimmed to about $72 million from $96 million since Jan. 1.
Even perks have been reduced.the chief executive himself now pays 20% of the cost of his health benefits.
the ship is now righted, the bilges are pumped.we are on course.
the ship is now righted, the bilges are pumped and we are on course.that Westmoreland's third quarter is typically better than the fourth.
that Westmoreland's third quarter is typically better than the fourth.investors "shouldn't just multiply the third quarter by four" and assume the same rate of improvement can be sustained.
that the fourth quarter has significantly fewer workdays because of holidays and the hunting season.Mr. Hutchinson predicted that 1989 would be "solidly profitable" for Westmoreland and that 1990 would bring "more of the same.
that 1989 would be "solidly profitable" for Westmoreland.that 1990 would bring "more of the same.
Coal prices will grow modestly in real terms.not skyrocketing.
Chase Manhattan Corp has exercised its option to purchase the 50-story office tower.trying unsuccessfully to sell its interest in its lower Manhattan operations building.
Of that amount, $20 million was payment for the land underneath the building.the rest was for the building itself.
most of whom will be moved to downtown Brooklyn.the bank's new back office center is completed in 1993.
As part of its decision to leave the building, Chase tried to sell its interest, along with the Atlas estate's interest.the October 1987 stock market crash.
the bank decided to exercise its option.bids fell short of expectations.
Chase is vacating 1.1 million square feet of space.Salomon Brothers Inc., whose headquarters is in the building, also plans to move shortly.
Chase is vacating 1.1 million square feet of space.and Salomon Brothers Inc plans to move shortly.
Chase is vacating 1.1 million square feet of space, and Salomon Brothers Inc., whose headquarters is in the building, also plans to move shortly.another major building tenant, Thomson McKinnon Inc. 's Thomson McKinnon Securities, likely will vacate the premises as part of its liquidation.
Even with its striking views of the New York harbor, the building is considered antiquated by modern office standards.Chase will have to spend approximately $50 million to remove asbestos from the premises.
Wall Street hasn't gotten that far yet.it has made a promising start.
a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear.something undeniably nasty happens.
a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear.something undeniably nasty happens.
a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear.a fresh grave may be covered by a blanket of flowers.
When something undeniably nasty happens, a few euphemisms are deployed to simply make it disappear, much as a fresh grave may be covered by a blanket of flowers.we'll bet you thought that the stock market crashed two years ago.
that history would record the event as only "a major technical correction.that if something walks like a duck and quacks like a duck, it is a duck.
that it is a duck.something walks like a duck and quacks like a duck.
These people used to be called brokers.apparently this word either is not grandiose enough or carries too many negative connotations from the aforementioned technical correction, when terrified customers couldn't raise brokers on the phone.
The transmogrified brokers never let the C-word cross their lips.stressing such terms as "safe," "insured" and "guaranteed.
instead stressing such terms as "safe," "insured" and "guaranteed.these terms may be severely limited in their application to a particular new financial product.
What could imply more safety than investing in government bonds?.What could be better than getting a tad more income from them (the plus) than other people.conservative investors, many of them elderly, have poured more than $50 billion into such funds, which promise fatter yields than ordinary Treasury bonds.
Indeed, conservative investors, many of them elderly, have poured more than $50 billion into such funds.only to learn that these funds use part of their money to dabble in high-risk bond options, a gambler's game.
look for Wall Street to give it a new moniker.a certain class of investment performs so poorly that its reputation is tarnished.
look for Wall Street to give it a new moniker.a certain class of investment performs so poorly that its reputation is tarnished.
In others a familiar old name still prevails.the underlying game has changed.
In others a familiar old name still prevails, but the underlying game has changed.no load" mutual funds remain a favorite with investors because they don't carry a frontend sales commission.
For example, "no load" mutual funds remain a favorite with investors.they don't carry a frontend sales commission.
For example, "no load" mutual funds remain a favorite with investors.Getting out of them may be a different story now.
they imposed no other fees.many still don't.
they imposed no other fees, and many still don't.In recent years a passel of others flying the no-load flag have been imposing hefty charges -- all the way up to 6% -- when an investor sells his shares.
In recent years, though, a passel of others flying the no-load flag have been imposing hefty charges -- all the way up to 6%.an investor sells his shares.
The mutual-fund industry is debating the question.don't expect a new name while the old one is working so well.
but don't expect a new name.the old one is working so well.
The mutual-fund industry is debating the question, but don't expect a new name while the old one is working so well.don't expect anyone to change the term "blue chip," either, even though some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were.
And don't expect anyone to change the term "blue chip," either.some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co., for one, is still a favorite of widows, orphans and trust departments.shorn of its regional telephone units and exposed to competition on every side, it is a far different investment prospect than it was before divestiture.
even though some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were.blue chips in general have suffered much more short-term price volatility in recent years.
to buy and sell big blocks.certain market conditions prevail.
For example, "no load" mutual funds remain a favorite with investors Getting out of them, however, may be a different story now And don't expect anyone to change the term "blue chip," either, even though some of the companies that still enjoy the title may be riskier investments than they were Also, blue chips in general have suffered much more short-term price volatility in recent years.even the time-honored strategy called "value investing" no longer means what it once did.
it would read something like this.the whole story were told.
to audit expenditures of old loans.new loans were made.
The banks will threaten not to make further loans.in truth, lacking the capital to write off their mistakes or to build a navy, they have no alternative but to go along.
Berkshire Hathaway earlier this year bought $600 million of preferred stock in Gillette that is convertible into an 11% stake.Gillette said at the time that Mr. Buffett would be added to the board.
Gillette Co. elected Warren E. Buffett, chairman of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., to its board.its third-quarter earnings rose 2% to $65.2 million, or 57 cents a share, from $63.9 million, or 57 cents a share, in the year-earlier period.
per-share earnings remained flat despite an increase in net income.the company paid a $10.4 million dividend on the new preferred stock in the period.
Mr. Guber jumped at the chance.Walter Yetnikoff, the president of Sony Corp. 's CBS Records, last month told producer Peter Guber that Sony was about to make a $3.4 billion bid for Columbia Pictures and needed someone to run the studio.
Within two days, he was on his way to New York and Tokyo to meet with top brass at Sony.before the week was out, Sony had offered Mr. Guber and his partner, Jon Peters, the most lucrative employment contracts in the history of the movie business.
And Sony had offered Mr. Guber and his partner, Jon Peters, the most lucrative employment contracts in the history of the movie business.the week was out.
And before the week was out, Sony had offered Mr. Guber and his partner, Jon Peters, the most lucrative employment contracts in the history of the movie business.Not only that, Sony agreed to give them a stake in Columbia's future profits and buy their company, Guber Peters Entertainment Co., for $200 million, almost 40% more than the market value of the company.
Just seven months earlier, they had signed a five-year exclusive contract to make movies for Warner Bros. for which they had just produced the smash hit "Batman.Mr. Guber figured that Warner Communications Inc. chairman Steven Ross, would empathize and let the producers go, knowing the Sony offer was "the culmination of a life's work.
That two successful producers who aren't all that well known outside Hollywood could occasion such a clash of corporate titans suggests how desperate the quest for proven talent is in the movie business.they are a very odd team in any case.
And they are a very odd team in any case.they are far and away the most prolific producers in Hollywood.
Yet, they are far and away the most prolific producers in Hollywood.despite their share of duds, they make movies that make money.
rivals such as Warner, Paramount Pictures, Walt Disney Co. and Universal Studios have been thrashing Columbia at the box office.Columbia had a good summer with "Ghostbusters II" and "When Harry Met Sally.
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters aren't universally loved in Hollywood.they are well connected.
sniffing out hot properties, locking them up.and getting big studios to bankroll and distribute them.
Sometimes Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters do little more than grab the first draft of a screenplay for a "Flashdance," or buy rights to a best seller such as "The Color Purple." It falls to others to do the writing, directing and producing.With MGM/UA's "Rainman Messrs..Guber and Peters had virtually nothing to do with day-to-day production, but their names still appear in big letters on the credits, and they are inevitably associated with its success.
With MGM/UA's "Rainman," for instance, Messrs..Guber and Peters had virtually nothing to do with day-to-day production.their names still appear in big letters on the credits, and they are inevitably associated with its success.
but their names still appear in big letters on the credits.they are inevitably associated with its success.
On that film they've been very much involved, hiring talent and discussing the development of the script.when you're making a movie this big, you need all the help you can get.
And you need all the help you can get.you're making a movie this big.
And you need all the help you can get.you're making a movie this big.
On that film they've been very much involved, hiring talent and discussing the development of the script..And when you're making a movie this big, you need all the help you can get.some movies seem to have been hurt by their inattention.
We've had a few bombs.by and large this company has only been profitable.
Longtime Hollywood associates describe Mr. Guber as the intellectual powerhouse of the two, a man with a flair for deal-making and marketing.Mr. Peters has fewer fans in Hollywood, and his detractors like to characterize him as something of a hot-tempered bully.
Mr. Peters, on the other hand, has fewer fans in Hollywood.his detractors like to characterize him as something of a hot-tempered bully.
He gets better reviews as a creative whiz, an enthusiast, an idea man.He had to fight harder for credibility than his partner did.
Thrice married but now single, Mr. Peters got plenty of ink last summer for an on-set romance with actress Kim Basinger during the making of "Batman.Mr. Guber has been married to one woman for more than 20 years.
Thrice married but now single, Mr. Peters got plenty of ink last summer for an on-set romance with actress Kim Basinger during the making of "Batman." Mr. Guber, by contrast, has been married to one woman for more than 20 years.for all their intellectual and stylistic differences, they make the perfect "good cop, bad cop" team.
Peter is the bright, sympathetic guy.you're doing a deal.
Peter disappears, and all of a sudden Jon shows up.there's a problem.
If there's a problem, Peter disappears.all of a sudden Jon shows up.
who shepherded "Flashdance" through several scripts.and produced the movie.
Producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, who shepherded "Flashdance" through several scripts and ultimately produced the movie, bristle.Messrs..Guber and Peters take credit for the film.
Producers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer, who shepherded "Flashdance" through several scripts and ultimately produced the movie, bristle.Messrs..Guber and Peters take credit for the film.
they made him forfeit all credits and financial interest in the films he had helped develop, including "Rainman" and "Batman.Roger Birnbaum, an executive who worked for Guber Peters in the early 1980s, left to take a job as head of production at the United Artists studio.
they made him forfeit all credits and financial interest in the films he had helped develop, including "Rainman" and "Batman.Roger Birnbaum, an executive who worked for Guber Peters in the early 1980s, left to take a job as head of production at the United Artists studio.
I was upset with Roger, I fumpered and schmumpered.he wanted to pursue his own dream, and he went.
But he wanted to pursue his own dream.he went.
When Roger Birnbaum, an executive who worked for Guber Peters in the early 1980s, left to take a job as head of production at the United Artists studio, they made him forfeit all credits and financial interest in the films he had helped develop, including "Rainman" and "Batman.Mr. Birnbaum says his relationship with Guber Peters was "one of the most successful I've had in Hollywood.
Jon is very impulsive.Peter is very compulsive.
Universal Studios was working on a competing film.the studio and its producers ultimately agreed to co-produce the film with Guber Peters and Warner.
Universal Studios was working on a competing film.but the studio and its producers agreed to co-produce the film with Guber Peters and Warner.
Universal Studios was working on a competing film.but the studio and its producers agreed to co-produce the film with Guber Peters and Warner.
Some of the money will go to the Chico Mendes Foundation.it isn't earmarked for groups trying to save the rain forest.
It's hardly astonishing (given the men's track record) that Sony wants Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters.it is puzzling to some Hollywood executives that Sony rushed to hire them without clearing up the Warner situation first.
that Sony might have saved itself some trouble by just hiring Mr. Guber and letting Mr. Peters stay on to fulfill the Warner contract.though "people in town may ask why Guber needs Peters, it's good to have a partner, and obviously the chemistry works.
But it's good to have a partner, and obviously the chemistry works.people in town may ask why Guber needs Peters.
But it's good to have a partner.obviously the chemistry works.
In 1980, Mr. Guber got together with Mr. Peters, by then a successful producer in his own right.the death of Mr. Bogart.
their record wasn't always so impressive.Guber Peters produced a number of hits for Warner and others.
Among their clinkers were "The Legend of Billie Jean," "VisionQuest," "Clue" and "Clan of the Cave Bear.the failures make it possible for Warner in its current lawsuit to paint the producers as ingrates.
that executives at Warner have always known of their ambitions to run a major entertainment powerhouse.that Warner never felt threatened until they linked up with Sony.
but that Warner never felt threatened.they linked up with Sony.
They always listened.they never acted.
In July a year later, Warner agreed to release the producers from their old contract.Messrs..Guber, Peters and Sugarman made a $100 million offer to buy 25% of MGM/UA.
In July a year later, Warner agreed to release the producers from their old contract.Messrs..Guber, Peters and Sugarman made a $100 million offer to buy 25% of MGM/UA.
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters planned to run the nearly dormant MGM studio.the two even tried to interest Warner Bros. ' President Terry Semel in becoming a partner after he advised them on the deal.
and the two even tried to interest Warner Bros. ' President Terry Semel in becoming a partner.he advised them on the deal.
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters planned to run the nearly dormant MGM studio, and the two even tried to interest Warner Bros. ' President Terry Semel in becoming a partner after he advised them on the deal.the MGM plan collapsed just two weeks later.
But the MGM plan collapsed just two weeks later.Their relationship with Mr. Sugarman soured.
Last May, he sold his 24% stake in Barris to a passive Australian investor.Barris was renamed Guber Peters Entertainment Co.
Last May, he sold his 24% stake in Barris to a passive Australian investor.Barris was renamed Guber Peters Entertainment Co.
Last May, he sold his 24% stake in Barris to a passive Australian investor and Barris was renamed Guber Peters Entertainment Co.Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters had agreed to extend their Warner agreement with the new five-year exclusive contract.
The new deal was considered the most generous of its kind, both financially and in terms of creative freedom.it paled by comparison to what Sony was to offer last month: the chance, at last, to run a major studio, about $50 million in deferred compensation, up to 10% of Columbia's future cash flow, 8% of the future appreciation of Columbia's market value, and annual salaries of $2.7 million for each.
to what Sony was to offer last month: the chance, at last, to run a major studio, about $50 million in deferred compensation, up to 10% of Columbia's future cash flow, 8% of the future appreciation of Columbia's market value, and annual salaries of $2.7 million for each.Sony agreed to indemnify the producers against any liability to Warner.
Sony is paying a hefty price for a company that had revenue of only $42 million last year.earnings have been erratic.
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters claim they have an oral agreement with Warner executives that allows them to terminate their contract should the opportunity to run a major studio arise.in affidavits filed yesterday in the Los Angeles court, Mr. Ross, Warner Bros..Chairman Robert Daly and President Semel deny that such an oral agreement was ever made.
For one thing, according to Mr. Daly, the producers requested a release in advance.the old contract was about to expire, and the lineup of Guber Peters pictures for Warner wasn't as strong as it is now.
Moreover, the old contract was about to expire.the lineup of Guber Peters pictures for Warner wasn't as strong as it is now.
Warner itself was in negotiations with MGM over certain movie and other rights.it was "in Warner's interest to accommodate MGM/UA, Guber and Peters by permitting them to become MGM executives.
Warner itself was in negotiations with MGM over certain movie and other rights.it was "in Warner's interest to accommodate MGM/UA, Guber and Peters by permitting them to become MGM executives.
At the very least, Mr. Ross clearly sees an opportunity to use the two men to get a pound of flesh from Sony.During settlement talks Warner demanded such things as cable TV rights to Columbia movies and Columbia's interest in the studio it jointly owns with Warner, according to executives involved in the talks.
in accepting the Sony offer.taking it up with Warner.
Mr. Guber and Mr. Peters refuse to concede that they may have made a tactical error in accepting the Sony offer before taking it up with Warner.they say there are plenty of precedents in Hollywood for letting people out of contracts.
The last time Columbia Pictures was looking for a studio chief Warner released producer David Puttnam from his contract.took him back after he was subsequently fired by his bosses at Columbia.
then took him back.he was subsequently fired by his bosses at Columbia.
no written contract in Hollywood will be worth the paper it's written on.Sony succeeds here.
First, there's the name: "asset-backed securities." Better than all those offers you get to buy securities backed by nothing.there's more.
The assets backing the securities come from some of the country's biggest -- and most secure -- institutions..Most earn high ratings from credit agencies..Their yields are higher than those of U.S. Treasury issues.the booming market has already attracted many of the nation's biggest institutional investors.
The concept may be simple.the simplicity may be misleading.
that asset-backed securities are only as good as the assets and credit backing that support them.those are hard to evaluate.
that asset-backed securities are only as good as the assets and credit backing that support them -- and those are hard to evaluate.the securities were introduced only about 4 1/2 years ago; the biggest unknown is how they will fare in a recession.
Skeptics say the slightly higher returns aren't enough to compensate for the extra risk..They warn that asset-backed securities are only as good as the assets and credit backing that support them -- and those are hard to evaluate..Moreover, the securities were introduced only about 4 1/2 years ago; the biggest unknown is how they will fare in a recession.Such concerns haven't stopped asset-backed securities from becoming one of Wall Street's hottest new products.
They have sold issues backed by car loans, boat loans and recreational-vehicle loans..They have offered bundles of homeequity loans, as well as packages of loans used to buy vacation time-shares..Last year, there was an issue of "death-backed bonds" -- securities backed by loans to life-insurance policyholders..Some predict there will be "Third World bonds," backed by loans to Brazil, Argentina and other debt-ridden nations.the biggest volume this year has been on securities backed by credit-card receivables, sometimes known as "plastic bonds.
nothing will be left unhocked.the sun sets on the '80s.
Most issues have been sold to professional money managers, pension funds, bank trust departments and other institutions.wealthy individuals also have been jumping in, and lately brokers have been pushing smaller investors into the asset-backed market.
Most issues have been sold to professional money managers, pension funds, bank trust departments and other institutions.But wealthy individuals have been jumping in.
But wealthy individuals also have been jumping in.lately brokers have been pushing smaller investors into the asset-backed market.
The process typically begins.an institution, such as Citibank or Sears, Roebuck & Co., takes a pool of credit-card or other receivables and sells them to a specially created trust.
The process typically begins.an institution, such as Citibank or Sears, Roebuck & Co., takes a pool of credit-card or other receivables and sells them to a specially created trust.
when an institution, such as Citibank or Sears, Roebuck & Co., takes a pool of credit-card or other receivables and sells them to a specially created trust.The trust issues securities -- generally due in five years or less -- that are underwritten by Wall Street brokerage firms and offered to investors.
Issues typically come with "credit enhancements," such as a bank letter of credit.and have received high credit ratings.
the booming market has opened up a valuable new source of funds to issuers.providing a valuable new investment for individuals and institutions.
Asset-backed securities "are an attractive investment compared to bank certificates of deposit or other corporate bonds.skeptics question whether asset-backed bonds offer sufficient rewards to compensate for the extra risks.
who buy bonds in large quantities.whose livelihood depends on outperforming the money manager across the street.
That kind of spread can be critical for money managers who buy bonds in large quantities and whose livelihood depends on outperforming the money manager across the street.for individuals who buy much smaller amounts and care less about relative performance than in preserving what they have, that margin is meaningless.
you're in the bond business playing the relative-performance derby.even an extra 25 basis points (0.25 percentage point) becomes an important consideration on a career basis.
If you're in the bond business playing the relative-performance derby, then even an extra 25 basis points (0.25 percentage point) becomes an important consideration on a career basis.if you're an individual investing money and trying to get it back again, then that isn't of overwhelming importance.
you're an individual investing money and trying to get it back again.But that isn't of overwhelming importance.
But for individuals who buy much smaller amounts and care less about relative performance than in preserving what they have, that margin is meaningless.the interest on asset-backed securities is fully taxable, while interest on Treasury issues is tax-free at the state and local level.
Moreover, the interest on asset-backed securities is fully taxable.interest on Treasury issues is tax-free at the state and local level.
That's why some investment managers, such as Alex Powers, a vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank's private banking division, don't recommend most asset-backed issues for individuals in high-tax states, such as New York or California.Mr. Powers has purchased asset-backed issues for individuals with tax-deferred accounts, such as retirement plans.
to sell their holdings quickly.the securities mature.
You could see massive gyrations here.it's such a thinly traded market.
The secondary, or resale, market for asset-backed securities is relatively new and much less active than for Treasury issues.an investor who wants to know the daily value of Treasury bonds, or corporate bonds traded on the New York Stock Exchange, can simply check newspaper listings.
Evaluating asset-backed securities poses another problem.Investors may mistakenly assume that the bank or company that originally held the assets is guaranteeing the securities.
that the certificates represent an interest only in the specially created trust and "do not represent interests in or obligations of the banks, Citibank N.A., Citicorp or any affiliate thereof.if there's a problem, don't expect Citibank to come to the rescue.
In other words don't expect Citibank to come to the rescue.there's a problem.
The front cover of the prospectus for the Citibank credit-card receivables offering points out in bold capital letters that the certificates represent an interest only in the specially created trust and "do not represent interests in or obligations of the banks, Citibank N.A., Citicorp or any affiliate thereof.The prospectus notes that the securities are not guaranteed by any government agency.
Evaluating asset-backed securities poses another problem.That isn't easy.
The letter of credit typically is not offered by the bank selling the assets to back the securities.does it cover the entire portfolio.
Details of credit enhancements vary widely from issue to issue.they play a crucial role in winning top ratings for most asset-backed issues.
in winning top ratings for most asset-backed issues.which is why the yield above Treasurys is so slim.
Still, they play a crucial role in winning top ratings for most asset-backed issues -- which in turn is why the yield above Treasurys is so slim.skeptics ask why you should bother buying this stuff when you can get only slightly lower yields on government-guaranteed paper.
why you should bother buying this stuff.you can get only slightly lower yields on government-guaranteed paper.
why you should bother buying this stuff.you can get only slightly lower yields on government-guaranteed paper.
you take the risk that a bank or an insurer could run into unexpected difficulties.you buy an asset-backed issue.
you take the risk that a bank or an insurer could run into unexpected difficulties.you buy an asset-backed issue.
that could also affect the ratings, liquidity and prices of the asset-backed issues that the bank supports.a bank's credit rating was lowered because of, say, its loans to Third World nations.
If a bank's credit rating was lowered because of, say, its loans to Third World nations.that could affect the ratings, liquidity and prices of the asset-backed issues that the bank supports.
Underwriters insist these issues are constructed to withstand extremely tough economic conditions.despite the credit enhancements, despite the high ratings, some money managers still worry that a recession could wreak havoc on the underlying assets.
That could widen the yield spread between Treasurys and asset-backed securities, as well as make it tougher to unload the latter.it could be much worse.
For one thing, credit-card loans are unsecured.that banks have been overeager to issue cards to the public -- giving cards to too many big spenders who will default during a recession.
A day of reckoning is coming where we think the market will place a high premium on the highest-quality debt issues.therefore we think the best debt investment is U.S. government bonds.
A day of reckoning is coming where the market will place a high premium on the highest-quality debt issues.the best debt investment is U.S. government bonds.
All this makes asset-backed securities seem too risky for many people.it reminds Raymond F. DeVoe Jr., a market strategist at Legg Mason Wood Walker Inc., of what he calls "DeVoe's Unprovable but Highly Probable Theory No. 1.
it would probably be a one-word sentence: Diversify.YOU FORCE financial planners to sum up their most important advice in a single sentence.
By spreading their wealth among several investment alternatives, the respondents have protected themselves against squalls in any one area, be it stocks, bonds or real estate.about 88% of Journal readers owned stock (down slightly from 91% in a similar poll last year)..But only 17.5% said they had more than half their money in the stock market.
For example, about 88% of Journal readers owned stock (down slightly from 91% in a similar poll last year).only 17.5% said they had more than half their money in the stock market.
For example, about 88% of Journal readers owned stock (down slightly from 91% in a similar poll last year)..But only 17.5% said they had more than half their money in the stock market.57% of respondents own shares in a money-market mutual fund, and 33% own municipal bonds..But only 6% to 7% of the investors were committing more than half their funds to either of those alternatives.
Similarly, 57% of respondents own shares in a money-market mutual fund.33% own municipal bonds.
Similarly, 57% of respondents own shares in a money-market mutual fund, and 33% own municipal bonds.only 6% to 7% of the investors were committing more than half their funds to either of those alternatives.
Judging by a poll of Wall Street Journal readers conducted this summer by Erdos & Morgan Inc., serious investors have taken that advice to heart.The poll provides a glimpse into the thinking of serious investors on a variety of other topics.
The response rate, more than 63%, allows the results to be interpreted with a high degree of confidence.The results can't be extrapolated to all investors.
Nearly half of the respondents (47%) said their investment portfolio was worth $250,000 or more.17% said it was worth $1 million or more.
The respondents were mildly optimistic about the economy and investment markets.their collective judgments were a notch more sober than they were a year ago.
The respondents were mildly optimistic about the economy and investment markets, but their collective judgments were a notch more sober than they were a year ago.12% of this year's respondents said they expect a recession within 12 months..Last year, only 8% were expecting a recession.
Apparently, the respondents don't think that an economic slowdown would harm the major investment markets very much..A slim majority (51%) think stock prices will be higher in August 1990 than they were in August 1989..Their verdict on real estate is almost the same..Some 50% expect real estate in their local area to increase in value over the next 12 months.only 32% expect an increase in the price of gold..Since gold tends to soar when inflation is high, that finding suggests that people believe inflation remains under control.
that finding suggests that people believe inflation remains under control.gold tends to soar when inflation is high.
Since gold tends to soar.inflation is high.
many respondents were taking a better-safe-than sorry investment stance.only 12% actually predicted a recession.
or are "unsure.a recession might come" (about 22%).
A buy-and-hold approach to stocks continues to be the rule among respondents.the lurking shadow of 1987's stock-market crash still seems dark.
About 33% considered another crash "likely.about 63% said one is "unlikely.
About 33% considered another crash "likely," while about 63% said one is "unlikely." Those percentages hardly changed from the previous year's poll.the respondents' commitment to the stock market remains somewhat lighter than usual.
About 60% of them said they would "ordinarily" have at least 25% of their money in stocks.as of August, only 50% actually had stock-market investments of that size.
Most stock-market indexes were hitting all-time highs at around the time of the poll.it appears that many Journal readers were taking that news as a sign to be cautious, rather than a signal to jump on the bandwagon.
it expects Valley National, of Phoenix, Ariz., to make substantial further provisions against its real-estate portfolio.that it continues to suffer from the high cost of carrying nonperforming assets, and from high loan-loss provisions.
Any secret can be pirated.it is transmitted over the air.
Even rank amateurs can do it.they spend a few thousand dollars for a commercially available microwave receiver with amplifier and a VCR recorder.
most aren't yet taking precautions.electronic espionage may cost U.S. firms billions of dollars a year.
Even though electronic espionage may cost U.S. firms billions of dollars a year, most aren't yet taking precautions.European firms will spend $150 million this year on electronic security, and are expected to spend $1 billion by 1992.
Already many foreign firms, especially banks, have their own cryptographers.encrypting corporate communications is only a partial remedy.
the expected influx of East European refugees over the next few years will greatly increase the chances of computer-maintenance workers, for example, doubling as foreign spies.technology now exists for stealing corporate secrets after they've been "erased" from a computer's memory.
for stealing corporate secrets.they've been "erased" from a computer's memory.
that Oliver North of Iran-Contra notoriety thought he had erased his computer.that the information was later retrieved for congressional committees to read.
that Oliver North of Iran-Contra notoriety thought he had erased his computer.but that the information was retrieved for congressional committees to read.
Under Mr. Gorbachev, Mr. Goode said, the Soviets are openly stealing Western corporate communications..He cited the case of a Swiss oil trader who recently put out bids via telex for an oil tanker to pick up a cargo of crude in the Middle East..Among the responses the Swiss trader got was one from the Soviet national shipping company, which hadn't been invited to submit a bid.The Soviets' eavesdropping paid off because they got the contract.
The Soviets' eavesdropping paid off, however.they got the contract.
to spend 25 million Canadian dollars ($21.3 million) over 10 years on research at Canadian universities.they are successful in acquiring the vaccine maker.
Ciba-Geigy and Chiron have made a joint bid of C$866 million for Connaught.Institut Merieux S.A. of France has made a rival bid of C$942 million.
that it would drop its opposition to foreign ownership.Ciba-Geigy and Chiron are successful with their lower bid.
Ciba-Geigy is a Swiss pharmaceutical company.Chiron is based in Emeryville, Calif.
The University is seeking an injunction against the Merieux bid, arguing that Connaught's predecessor company agreed in 1972 that Connaught's ownership wouldn't be transferred to foreigners.the French company is determined to acquire Connaught.
he said Merieux can transfer new products and technologies to Connaught more rapidly than other companies "not currently producing and marketing vaccines {who} can only promise this for some . . . years in the future.he didn't comment directly on the pact between Ciba-Geigy and the university.
Microsoft soared 3 3/4, or 4%, to a record price of 84 1/4 on 1.2 million shares.Valley National tumbled 24%.
On the other hand, Valley National tumbled 24%.reporting a sizable third-quarter loss.
The OTC market's largest stocks soared as well.the Nasdaq 100 Index jumped 10.01, or 2%, to 463.06.
The OTC market's largest stocks soared as well, as the Nasdaq 100 Index jumped 10.01, or 2%, to 463.06..The Nasdaq Financial Index rose 5.04, or 1.1%, to 460.33.the Dow Jones Industrials and the New York Stock Exchange Composite each rose 1.5%.
The Nasdaq industrial index climbed 8.17 to 458.52.the "other finance" index, made up of commercial banks and real estate and brokerage firms, rose 3.97 to 545.96.
Of the 4,346 issues that changed hands, 1,435 rose.629 fell.
both institutional and retail investors were buying.there was a dearth of sellers so buyers had to bid prices up to entice them.
But there was a dearth of sellers.buyers had to bid prices up to entice them.
he raised his fiscal 1990 estimate to between $3.80 and $4 a share.the earnings were announced.
Among other software issues, Autodesk jumped 1 1/4 to 42, Lotus Development was unchanged at 32 1/2, Novell jumped 7/8 to 30 3/4, Ashton-Tate gained 1/4 to 10 5/8.Oracle Systems rose 3/4 to 25 3/4.
its $110 million provision for credit losses and $11 million provision for other real estate owned is related to weakness in the Arizona real estate market.it downgraded Valley National's senior debt and confirmed the company's commercial paper rating of "not prime.
more than 2.2 million shares changed hands.trading began.
It was five in the afternoon.that was Pacific time.
Back in New York the work day was already over.I didn't have to feel guilty.
Back in New York the work day was already over, so I didn't have to feel guilty.I did feel self-indulgent.
Even still, I did feel self-indulgent.I couldn't help remembering my father's contempt for a rich medical colleague who would go to watch the Tigers on summer afternoons.
This ballpark, the Stick, was not a classic baseball stadium -- too symmetrical, too much bald concrete.it didn't have the crowded wild intimacy of Yankee Stadium.
This ballpark, the Stick, was not a classic baseball stadium -- too symmetrical, too much bald concrete..And it didn't have the crowded wild intimacy of Yankee Stadium.I liked the easy friendliness of the people around me, liked it that they'd brought their children, found it charming that, true citizens of the state of the future, they had brought so many TVs and radios to stay in touch with electroreality at a live event.
Why not watch or hear your experience historicized.you were living it.
Players ran out on the field way below.the stands began to reverberate.
It must be a local custom stamping feet to stamping feet to welcome the team.then the noise turned into a roar.
and the stands began to reverberate.But the noise turned into a roar.
But then the noise turned into a roar.no one was shouting.
No one around me was saying anything.we all were busy riding a wave.
Only at the moment of maximum roll did I grasp what was going on.I remembered the quake of '71.
I reasoned that a) I was in Southern California; b) the bed was moving; c) it must be a Magic Fingers bed that had short-circuited.the swaying of the building woke me up.
I reasoned that a) I was in Southern California; b) the bed was moving; c) it must be a Magic Fingers bed that had short-circuited.I noticed the overhead light was swaying on its cord and realized what had happened.
Get out of the possibly collapsing building to the parking lot.the lot might split into crevasses, so I had better stand on my car, which probably was wider than the average crevasse.
But the lot might split into crevasses.I had better stand on my car, which probably was wider than the average crevasse.
Fortunately, the quake was over.I managed to run out and stand naked on the hood.
At the Stick I thought of that morning.the world shook.
At the Stick, while the world shook, I thought of that morning.then it struck me that this time was different.
At the Stick I thought of that morning.and it struck me that this time was different.
I would have achieved every journalist's highest wish.I survived.
The real tragedies occurred elsewhere, as we soon found out.for a few minutes there, relief abounded.
The wall behind me was slightly deformed.the center had held.
A young mother found her boy, who had been out buying a hotdog..The wall behind me was slightly deformed, but the center had held.most of us waited for a while for the game to start.
And most of us waited for a while for the game to start.we began to file out.
In this way we kept up to date on events.the Stick itself was blacked out.
Increasingly accurate estimates of the severity of the quake became available.I got to my car.
Increasingly accurate estimates of the severity of the quake became available before I got to my car.by then, expensive automobile sound systems were keeping the gridlocked parking lot by the bay informed about the fire causing the big black plume of smoke we saw on the northern horizon.
Increasingly accurate estimates of the severity of the quake became available before I got to my car.And expensive automobile sound systems were keeping the gridlocked parking lot by the bay informed about the fire causing the big black plume of smoke we saw on the northern horizon.
Darkness fell.the broadcasts continued through the blacked-out night, with pictures of the sandwiched highway ganglion in Oakland and firefighting in the Marina district.
But the broadcasts continued through the blacked-out night, with pictures of the sandwiched highway ganglion in Oakland and firefighting in the Marina district.our little sand village of cars had been linked with a global village of listeners and viewers.
Everyone at the Stick that day had started out as a spectator and ended up as a participant.the entire population of the Bay Area had ended up with this dual role of actor and audience.
The reporters were victims.some of the victims turned into unofficial reporters.
and record the car in front.it fell into the gap in the roadway.
The tape was on tv.the night was out.
The plunge made Shearson's market commentary instantly out of date.last Friday's 190.58-point tumble in the stock market caught many people and businesses by surprise, not the least of them brokerage firms such as Shearson.
Shearson, a 62%-owned unit of American Express Co., didn't have enough time to update its market commentary.We decided to kill our strategy pieces.
that a red-faced Shearson must have been wildly bullish on stocks in its original commentary.that's why it purged its pages.
The first thought some investors had was that a red-faced Shearson must have been wildly bullish on stocks in its original commentary, and that's why it purged its pages.Mr. Rivkin insists that the 10 pages weren't pulled because they were too bullish.
that the 10 pages weren't pulled.they were too bullish.
because they were too bullish.they were cautious.
Instead they were cautious.that wasn't the message we wanted to deliver" on Monday.
We were raising some caution flags about rate rises in Europe and concerns about the LBO market.by late Friday afternoon, actually after the close, we decided that was the wrong tone to take.
Retail sales are plummeting.consumer prices still are rising.
A lengthy recession would drain state coffers and create severe hardships for urban workers.it materializes.
wages for most workers won't keep pace with inflation, creating a potential source of urban unrest.the government suddenly reverses course.
Industrial output surged 21% in 1988.inflation peaked last February at nearly 30%.
The economy's slowdown is due only partly to the austerity program launched in September 1988 to cool an overheated economy and tame inflation.The slowdown results from chronic energy and raw-materials shortages that force many factories to restrict operations to two or three days a week.
In Western, market-driven countries, recessions often have a bright side.In China there isn't likely to be any silver lining.
In China, however, there isn't likely to be any silver lining.the economy remains guided primarily by the state.
to be any silver lining.China is likely to shell out ever-greater subsidies to its coddled state-run enterprises.
In China, however, there isn't likely to be any silver lining because the economy remains guided primarily by the state.are any of these inefficient monoliths likely to be allowed to go bankrupt.
Nor are any of these inefficient monoliths likely to be allowed to go bankrupt.the brunt of the slowdown will be felt in the fast-growing private and semi-private "township" enterprises.
which have fallen into disfavor.China's leaders re-emphasize an orthodox Marxist preference for public ownership.
which have fallen into disfavor.China's leaders re-emphasize an orthodox Marxist preference for public ownership.
China penalizes the efficient and rewards the incompetent.the going gets rough.
China penalizes the efficient and rewards the incompetent.the going gets rough.
Reports of an economy near recession come.officials prepare a major Communist Party plenum for sometime in the next few weeks.
The meeting is expected to call for heightened austerity for two years.with industrial growth stagnant and inflation showing signs of easing, some voices may call for measures to pump new life into the economy.
to bring the economy to a collapse.unchecked.
One sign of a possible easing of credit policy was the decision this week of People's Bank of China, the central bank, to allocate $5.4 billion in short-term loans to pay farmers for the autumn harvest.while pumping more money into the economy would bring relief to many industries, it also runs the risk of triggering another period of runaway growth and steep inflation.
But it also runs the risk of triggering another period of runaway growth and steep inflation.pumping more money into the economy would bring relief to many industries.
But while pumping more money into the economy would bring relief to many industries.it runs the risk of triggering another period of runaway growth and steep inflation.
The cycle has been repeated several times.China began reforming its planned economy in 1979.
The cycle has been repeated several times since China began reforming its planned economy in 1979.because China's leaders have abandoned plans to drastically reform the economy, it is likely to continue, analysts say.
And it is likely to continue.China's leaders have abandoned plans to drastically reform the economy.
that state banks extend more credit to shopkeepers.they can purchase manufacturers' goods.
This will prevent a slide in industrial production.which will cause new panic buyings.
The 1986 tax overhaul, the biggest achievement of President Reagan's second term, is beginning to fall apart.interest groups are lining up for tax goodies all over Capitol Hill.
Big auction houses want to make collectibles eligible for lower capital-gains taxes.heavy-industry lobbyists are quietly discussing the possibility of reinstating the investment tax credit.
to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts.and to bring back income averaging for farmers, a tax preference that allows income to be spread out over several years.
The Senate Finance Committee voted to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts, and also to bring back income averaging for farmers, a tax preference that allows income to be spread out over several years.As part of the same bill, the finance panel voted in favor of billions of dollars in narrow tax breaks for individuals and corporations, in what committee member Sen. David Pryor (D., Ark.) calls a "feeding frenzy" of special-interest legislating.
To be sure, the full Senate, facing a fast-approaching budget deadline, last Friday stripped away all of the tax breaks that were contained in the Finance Committee bill.lawmakers of both parties agree that the streamlining was temporary.
It's a Swiss-cheese factory.the cheese smells pretty good.
In reaction to proposed capital-gains legislation, groups are lobbying to make sure they aren't left off the gravy train.Real-estate interests are protesting an omission in President Bush's capital-gains proposal.
they certainly want to be part of it.there is going to be a tax scheme that contemplates lower treatment of capital gains.
In the House-passed tax bill, Mr. Thevenot got his wish.Sotheby's, Christie's and the National Association of Antique Dealers are still trying to get theirs.
real-estate assets are included in the capital-gains provision.that gains from the sale of collectibles be given preferential treatment.
Two of the major ways that tax-writers managed to attain these ends were to scrap the preferential treatment of capital gains and to curtail the use of paper losses, also known as passive losses, that made many tax shelters possible.Many other tax benefits were swept away.
They wanted reform.they got a revolution.
instead of flying to San Francisco for a fund-raiser.and to his hometown of Chicago for the 30th reunion of St. Ignatius High School.
I'm too old to waste a weekend.that's what I did.
Load factor, or percentage of seats filled, climbed to 67.1% from 66.6%.the number of flights rose 6.9% to 215,845 in the first-three quarters.
he throws his heart instead.the champ has lost his stuff.
he throws his heart instead.the champ has lost his stuff.
he throws his heart instead.he can no longer throw the high hard one.
he throws his heart instead.he can no longer throw the high hard one.
when he can no longer throw the high hard one.he throws his heart.
Chandler left behind four chapters of yet another Marlowe book, "The Poodle Springs Story.he died in 1959.
well, at the end, neither did Chandler.it does not quite have Chandler's special magic.
a newly wed Marlowe roars into the desert resort of Poodle (a.k.a..Palm) Springs at the wheel of a Cadillac Fleetwood.the book begins.
Philip and Linda move into her mansion and can't keep their hands off each other, even in front of the Hawaiian/Japanese houseman.the lovebirds have a conflict.
He wants to continue being a low-paid private eye.she wants him to live off the million dollars she's settled on him.
The supporting lineup is solid, the patter is amusing.there's even a cameo by Bernie Ohls, the "good cop" of previous Chandler books who still doesn't hesitate to have Marlowe jailed when it suits his purposes.
to have Marlowe jailed.it suits his purposes.
to have Marlowe jailed.it suits his purposes.
Mr. Parker does a better job of making a novel out of this abandoned fragment than anyone might have had a right to expect.there are grounds for complaint.
At one point, the reader is two steps ahead of Marlowe in catching on to a double identity scam.Marlowe is supposed to be the pro.
Japan has been a major importer of foreign information and news.one gets fed up with importing information and news.
taking their first steps into American publishing.making major investments in entertainment, real estate and banking companies here.
Japanese concerns have retained a number of publishing consultants and media brokers to study the U.S. market, including the New York-based investment banker Veronis, Suhler & Associates.they are quietly linking up with U.S. publishing trade groups.
observers don't rule out a transaction of that size.there aren't any major deals in the works currently on the scale of Sony Corp. 's recent $3.4 billion agreement to buy Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc.
It may not be weeks or months.they are also opportunistic and if they feel comfortable, they will move on a deal.
The Japanese take the long view.but they are opportunistic.
and they will move on a deal.they feel comfortable.
it appealed to a more multinational audience.Keizaikai launched Business Tokyo in 1987.
The Japanese are in the early stage right now.they were interested in hard assets and they saw magazines as soft.
Before, they were interested in hard assets.they saw magazines as soft.
Bell Atlantic Corp. and Southern New England Telecommunications posted strong profit gains for the third quarter.Nynex Corp., Pacific Telesis Group and U S West Inc. reported earnings declines for the period.
New telephone lines posted healthy growth.they increased 2.8% to 12.1 million.
Revenue was reduced $33 million by three extraordinary items: a California Public Utilities Commission refund for an American Telephone & Telegraph Co. billing adjustment; a provision for productivity sharing to be paid to customers in 1990 and a one-time accrual for a toll settlement with long-distance telephone companies.The company was hurt by a $289 million rate reduction that went into effect in 1989.
toll calls increased 9.6% to 807 million.minutes of telephone usage increased to 9.9 billion.
third-quarter net income plunged 39% to $336 million, or 65 cents a share.gasoline refining and marketing profits lagged substantially behind last year's record level.
third-quarter net income plunged 39% to $336 million, or 65 cents a share.gasoline refining and marketing profits lagged substantially behind last year's record level.
Amoco completed an environmental analysis last quarter.that no single clean-up project was responsible.
Generally in the quarter, overproduction of gasoline and higher crude oil prices pressured profitability.The industry's chemical profits declined because excess capacity has depressed prices.
The industry's chemical profits also declined.excess capacity has depressed prices.
Gasoline margins may rebound this quarter.chemical margins could worsen.
Amoco's domestic oil and natural gas operations recorded a profit of $104 million in the quarter compared with a loss of $5 million, "primarily on the strength of higher crude oil prices.Amoco sharply boosted natural-gas output, part of it from properties acquired from Tenneco Inc. last year.
Amoco's domestic oil and natural gas operations recorded a profit of $104 million in the quarter compared with a loss of $5 million, "primarily on the strength of higher crude oil prices," said Chairman Richard M. Morrow..Amoco also sharply boosted natural-gas output, part of it from properties acquired from Tenneco Inc. last year.foreign exploration and production earnings fell sharply, to $12 million from $95 million.
For the nine months, Amoco said that net income fell to $1.29 billion from $1.69 billion.if unusual items are excluded, operations produced essentially flat results.
but operations produced essentially flat results.unusual items are excluded.
a price war will erupt.cash-strapped companies such as Campeau Corp. slash tags to spur sales.
Many retailers fear a price war will erupt if cash-strapped companies such as Campeau Corp. slash tags to spur sales.Concerns about the stock market, doubts about the economy in general and rising competition from catalog companies haunt store operators.
the outlook for industry profits isn't good.there isn't any widespread discounting.
B.A.T Industries PLC's healthy Saks Fifth Avenue and Marshall Field's chains are on the auction block.Campeau's Bloomingdale's is on the block.
Economists expect general merchandise sales in the fourth quarter to rise 4.5% to 6% from year-ago figures.Mr. Steidtmann predicts that healthy stores hawking mostly apparel could ring up gains of as much as 25% to 30%.
Troubled chains could see their sales drop as much as 8%.managers distracted by fears about the future allow their stores to get sloppy.
Troubled chains could see their sales drop as much as 8% as managers distracted by fears about the future allow their stores to get sloppy.Thin merchandise selections at the most troubled chains are expected to hurt sales.
Traditionally, consumers were concerned about ordering after the first of December.they didn't believe they would get it by Christmas.
He's not predicting a blockbuster.he is "more optimistic than three months ago" because employment remains strong and inflation low.
but he is "more optimistic than three months ago.employment remains strong and inflation low.
K mart Corp. Chairman Joseph E. Antonini summed up his outlook for the Christmas season as "not troublesome.Other retailers are preparing for a ho-hum holiday.
It isn't a real boom holiday season in our eyes.it isn't going to be a bust either.
It isn't a real boom holiday season in our eyes," says Woolworth Corp. Chairman Harold E. Sells, "but it isn't going to be a bust either.A consumer poll conducted in early September by Leo J. Shapiro & Associates, a market researcher based in Chicago suggests a modest holiday.
Of the 450 survey respondents, 35% said they expect to spend less buying Christmas gifts this year than last year.28% said they expect to spend more and 37% said their gift budget would stay the same.
Of the 450 survey respondents, 35% said they expect to spend less buying Christmas gifts this year than last year.28% said they expect to spend more and 37% said their gift budget would stay the same.
while 28% said they expect to spend more.37% said their gift budget would stay the same.
Retailers could get a boost this year from the calendar..Christmas falls on a Monday, creating a big last-minute weekend opportunity for stores.many consumers probably will use the extra time to put off some purchasing until the last minute.
What you'll hear is that sales are sluggish.we get into December.
or left Spain.Franco triumphed.
no doubt earning with his war wound some forbearance.he went on to depict a country with a high population of vagabonds, murderers and rural idiots trudging aimlessly through a dried-out land.
no doubt earning with his war wound some forbearance when he went on to depict a country with a high population of vagabonds, murderers and rural idiots trudging aimlessly through a dried-out land.it was in Argentine editions that his countrymen first read his story of Pascal Duarte, a field worker who stabbed his mother to death and has no regrets as he awaits his end in a prison cell.
and has no regrets.he awaits his end in a prison cell.
I've submitted the manuscript of my novel under the title `Teresa de Cepeda.in it I've treated a few neglected aspects of that eternal problem which.
Will you pour me a drop of water.you don't mind.
I've revised it several times.I think I may say with pride that there is not a single discordant word in the whole text.
I don't know the quality of the works my colleagues have sent in.in any case I feel confident that good sense and honest judgment.
It does not matter.one is defeated.
will he be able to deliver a credible message in the wake of the Panamanian fiasco.President Bush arrives here next week for a hemispheric summit organized to commemorate a century of Costa Rican democracy.
to pay lip service to nonintervention.they privately encourage more assertive U.S. action to remove Gen. Manuel Noriega and safeguard their countries from a Sandinista onslaught.
Faced with this embarrassment, U.S. diplomats expressed confidence that the influential Rio Group of South American nations, which gathered last week in Peru, would take a stronger posture toward the Panamanian dictator.other than a few slaps on the wrist, Gen. Noriega went unpunished by that body, too.
The host, Costa Rican President Oscar Arias, did not invite Chile, Cuba, Panama or Haiti to the summit, which was to be restricted to democracies.Mr. Ortega was included.
Formally upgrading the Sandinistas to a democratic status.the Bush administration agreed to the dubious arrangement in July.
According to officials in Washington, the State Department hoped that by pleasing President Arias, it would gain his support to postpone any decision on the Contras until after Mr. Ortega's promises of democratic elections were tested next February.relying on an ardent critic of the Reagan administration and the Contra movement for help in delaying the disarming of the Contras was risky business.
However, relying on an ardent critic of the Reagan administration and the Contra movement for help in delaying the disarming of the Contras was risky business.even some last-minute phone calls that Mr. Bush made (at the behest of some conservative U.S. senators) to enlist backing for the U.S. position failed to stop the march of Mr. Arias's agenda.
In Honduras he promised to help unblock some $70 million in assistance withheld due to the failure of local agencies to comply with conditions agreed upon with Washington.Aid was the gist of the talks Sen. Dodd had with Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani.
Prior to this episode, Sen. Christopher Dodd (D., Conn.) undertook a personal diplomatic mission through Central America to promote an early disbanding of the rebels.It was not surprising that close allies of the U.S. ordered the Nicaraguan insurgents dismantled by December, long before the elections.
The U.S.S.R. would prolong a suspension of arms shipments to Nicaragua after the February election.the U.S. did likewise with its allies in Central America.
There, Mr. Shevardnadze felt legitimized to unveil his own peace plan: The U.S.S.R. would prolong a suspension of arms shipments to Nicaragua after the February election if the U.S. did likewise with its allies in Central America.He called on Nicaragua's neighbors to accept a "military equilibrium" guaranteed by both superpowers.
speculations arose that the Bush administration was seeking an accommodation with the Soviets in Central America.Mr. Shevardnadze's proposals followed discussions with Mr. Baker.
which declared a false symmetry between Soviet military aid to the Sandinista dictatorship.that provided by Washington to freely elected governments.
This scheme would fit the Arias Plan.it is also likely to encourage those on Capitol Hill asking for cuts in the assistance to El Salvador if President Cristiani does not bend to demands of the Marxist guerrillas.
This scheme would fit the Arias Plan.Furthermore, it is likely to encourage those on Capitol Hill asking for cuts in the assistance to El Salvador if President Cristiani does not bend to demands of the Marxist guerrillas.
Furthermore, it is also likely to encourage those on Capitol Hill asking for cuts in the assistance to El Salvador.President Cristiani does not bend to demands of the Marxist guerrillas.
A few months ago, the Bush administration decided to stop this cooperation, leaving Radio Costa Rica operating on a shoestring.Russia gave Nicaragua another powerful radio transmitter.
about what would happen.his much-heralded peace plan would fail.
that the U.S. will come to its defense.their country is militarily attacked by either Nicaragua or Panama.
A poll conducted in July by a Gallup affiliate showed that 64% of Costa Ricans believe that if their country is militarily attacked by either Nicaragua or Panama, the U.S. will come to its defense.in the light of events in Panama, where the U.S. has such clear strategic interests, waiting for the Delta Force may prove to be a dangerous gambit.
Holiday Corp. said net income jumped 89%, partly on the strength of record operating income in its gaming division.the hotel and gambling giant said it was proceeding with plans to make a tender offer and solicit consents with respect to approximately $1.4 billion of its publicly traded debt.
it would retire or assume.it agreed to buy the Holiday Inn business in August.
The debt issues involved and the proposed consent fees and cash tender offer prices (expressed per $1,000 of principal amount) are as follows: 10 1/2% senior notes due 1994 at 101%; 11% subordinated debt due 1999 at 102%; 9 3/8% notes due 1993 at 100%; and 8 3/8% notes due 1996 at 95.25%.its 15% notes due 1992 will be included in the tender offer and consent solicitation at a price to be determined by Holiday prior to the commencement of the offer.
MCA and Paramount may have similar ambitions.such a venture wouldn't match the "fourth network" created by News Corp. 's Fox Broadcasting Co.
Fox provides programs three nights a week to those and other affiliates.which owns six TV stations.
MCA owns WWOR in New York.Paramount last month agreed to purchase a 79% stake in the TVX Broadcast Group from Salomon Inc. in a deal valued at $140 million.
the co-venture would target stations affiliated with Fox.Fox has the desirable independent stations in most of the key cities.
Currently, Fox supplies programs on Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays.the company plans to expand to other weeknights.
it plans to offer its stations movies, theatrical and made-for-TV ventures, probably on Wednesdays, sometime next year.It is planning another night of original series.
Paramount and MCA, according to the broadcasting executive, plan to offer theatrical movies produced separately by Paramount and MCA for Wednesdays and perhaps a block of original shows Fridays.Paramount and MCA have held discussions with Chris-Craft Industries' broadcasting unit.
BanPonce caters to a more affluent customer.Banco Popular has always had a large presence among middle-income and lower-income markets.
BanPonce caters to a more affluent customer, while Banco Popular has always had a large presence among middle-income and lower-income markets.The merger should allow the companies to reduce costs by combining operations in many locations in Puerto Rico.
third-quarter earnings tumbled 43%.full-year earnings will trail last year's results.
In announcing a 1989 capital spending plan of $950 million early this year, Caterpillar said full-year earnings would be flat compared with last year's $616 million, or $6.07 a share.yesterday, the company said this year's profit will be lower.
But yesterday, the company said this year's profit will be lower.Caterpillar said it will indefinitely lay off about 325 workers in the Peoria area and temporarily shut its plant in York, Pa., for two weeks in both November and December.
it may make more equity purchases depending on market conditions.the close of business today.
B.A.T Industries PLC won overwhelming shareholder approval for a defensive restructuring to fend off a #13.35 billion ($21.23 billion) takeover bid from Sir James Goldsmith.Sir James still is pursuing efforts to gain U.S. insurance regulators' approval for a change in control of B.A.T's Farmers Group Inc. unit..The Anglo-French financier has indicated he intends to bid again for B.A.T if he receives approval.
to bid again for B.A.T.he receives approval.
when it took a pretax charge of $10 million.dropping development of an interactive video entertainment system.
that Hasbro's new line of battery-powered racing cars, called Record Breakers, and its acquisition of Cabbage Patch Kids, Scrabble and other lines from Coleco Industries Inc. puts the company "in a good position.we enter the Christmas buying season.
Reebok International Ltd. posted a 35% increase in third-quarter net income despite a slight decline in sales.Reebok completed the acquisition of CML Group Inc. 's Boston Whaler unit, a builder of power boats.
CML, Acton, Mass., had agreed to sell the unit to Reebok for about $42 million.The agreement called for Reebok to receive warrants to purchase 400,000 shares of CML common at $31.25 a share, exercisable at any time before July 1.
Pitney Bowes Inc. directors authorized the company to seek buyers for its Wheeler Group Inc. subsidiary, a direct mail marketer of office supplies.Pitney Bowes said third-quarter net income gained 15% to $62 million, or 78 cents a share, from $54 million, or 68 cents a share, a year ago.
The failure in Oakland of the freeway segment known as the Cypress structure was the deadliest aspect of the quake.officials were hopeful yesterday that the death toll there might be significantly lower than the 250 initially feared.
Red tractors gingerly picked at the rubble.jackhammers tried to break up some of the massive slabs of concrete.
he couldn't immediately confirm or deny existence of the test work.that the department hadn't mastered the technology needed to retrofit the entire Cypress structure.
that the department hadn't mastered the technology needed to retrofit the entire Cypress structure.snafus in transportation funding that the state has experienced over the years may have restricted the availability of funds for such a retrofitting, even if it were technologically feasible.
Moreover snafus in transportation funding that the state has experienced over the years may have restricted the availability of funds for such a retrofitting.it were technologically feasible.
the state DOT had sent the project over to its Sacramento engineers to draw up a final design.completing installation of the jackets on "one frame" of the freeway last year.
encasing the concrete columns with steel.connecting them more securely to the double-decker roadbed.
Knowledgeable employees said the project had been stymied somewhat by "the difficulty of designing" the jackets.The employees said the project may have been snagged by budgetary concerns.
The Cypress structure opened in June 1957, and as such, like many buildings in the San Francisco Bay area, does not meet current building codes requiring considerably more steel support..The northern piers of the span lie in estuarian deposits that were of a type to have liquefied easily during the 1906 quake.they were as surprised as anyone by the Cypress destruction.
that multiple-column viaducts would stand up well.they were working on ways to bolster them.
Unfortunately, there is only one laboratory for developing techniques to withstand earthquakes.that is an earthquake.
The meeting had been scheduled for Nov. 10.the company delayed the meeting to allow time for the Securities and Exchange Commission to review the proposal.
As part of a restructuring announced earlier this year, the company proposed in August to exchange 168 newly issued common shares for each $1,000 face value of debt.that figure could be revised.
about 13 million new shares would be issued.all the debt was converted.
As part of a restructuring announced earlier this year, the company proposed in August to exchange 168 newly issued common shares for each $1,000 face value of debt.Financial Corp. is proposing to exchange each of its 130,000 outstanding shares of cumulative convertible preferred series A stock for two shares of common.
pledging billions of dollars in fresh credit and forgiving old debt.urging other industrial nations to follow suit.
Both hope to encourage pressure for change in East bloc countries still ruled by Stalinist holdouts by arranging liberal financial aid and trade benefits for Poland, Hungary and, to a lesser extent, the Soviet Union.West German officials have the special goal of holding out hope for East Germany's fledgling reform movement.
that reforms will be undertaken in {East Germany}.that relations between the two German states, too, will get better.
We want the bold programs of market development and political freedom in Hungary and in Poland to succeed..We are prepared to support those changes.U.S. curbs on the exports of sensitive technology to East bloc countries will remain in place.
Mr. Genscher and U.S. Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher, in separate speeches at the conference, appealed for more Western contributions to economic reforms and business development in Hungary and Poland.the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday approved an $837.5 million aid package for Poland and Hungary that more than doubles the amount President Bush had requested.
The package was brought to the House.it was introduced.
Meanwhile, the U.S. House of Representatives yesterday approved an $837.5 million aid package for Poland and Hungary that more than doubles the amount President Bush had requested.a group of 24 industrialized countries, including the U.S. and Japan and coordinated by the European Community Commission, has promised Poland and Hungary trade advice and a line of credit equivalent to $1.11 billion through the European Investment Bank, while the EC plans $222 million in direct aid.
In addition, a group of 24 industrialized countries, including the U.S. and Japan and coordinated by the European Community Commission, has promised Poland and Hungary trade advice and a line of credit equivalent to $1.11 billion through the European Investment Bank.the EC plans $222 million in direct aid.
to take with him a promise of three billion West German marks ($1.6 billion) in new credit guarantees for industrial projects.Chancellor Helmut Kohl travels to Poland Nov. 9.
Last week, Bonn agreed to reschedule 2.5 billion marks in Polish debt that came due last year.a one billion mark credit dating from 1974 is to be written off.
When Chancellor Helmut Kohl travels to Poland Nov. 9, he is expected to take with him a promise of three billion West German marks ($1.6 billion) in new credit guarantees for industrial projects.West Germany has increased its credit guarantees to Hungary by 500 million marks to 1.5 billion marks.
West Germany also has increased its credit guarantees to Hungary by 500 million marks to 1.5 billion marks.the emerging democratic state rushes through its own economic reforms, including a broad privatization of state-owned industry and tax incentives for industrial investment.
to become the first West German bank to set up independent business offices in Hungary and Poland.they shift to free-market economies.
A maxim of Frankfurt banking holds that wherever Deutsche Bank goes, other West German banks follow.at least four other West German banks are believed to be making inquiries.
Mattel's world-wide volume has grown 25% in a climate of relatively flat industry sales.the toy company's "prospects for a strong fourth quarter" are good.
Mattel attributed the jump in quarter net to strong world-wide sales of its Barbie doll, Hot Wheels cars, Disney toys and other well-known toy lines.The company cited retail trade and consumer demand for new products introduced this year, such as Cherry Merry Muffin and Turtle Tots.
The charge didn't affect net for the quarter.it was offset by tax benefits.
politicians are squinting under the glare of democratic choice.the Supreme Court opened the door on the subject of abortion.
politicians are squinting under the glare of democratic choice.the Supreme Court opened the door on the subject of abortion.
which is only fair.they've been shielded the most.
They could attract one-issue voters by adopting the right-to-life movement's strongest position.pro-choice Republicans knew this mattered little on an issue monopolized by the court.
They could attract one-issue voters by adopting the right-to-life movement's strongest position.pro-choice Republicans knew this mattered little on an issue monopolized by the court.
Last Friday he hinted he was looking for compromise.Congress passed it anyway.
who once was pro-choice.but pro-life.
it detected George Bush in a characteristic waffle on abortion the past week.Mr. Bush's dance was more wiggle than waffle.
pro-life Republicans met at the White House with Chief of Staff John Sununu on Monday, and Mr. Bush quickly signaled a veto.Democrats refused to budge.
pro-life Republicans met at the White House with Chief of Staff John Sununu on Monday, and Mr. Bush quickly signaled a veto.Democrats refused to budge.
When Democrats refused to budge, pro-life Republicans met at the White House with Chief of Staff John Sununu on Monday.Mr. Bush quickly signaled a veto.
At the 1988 GOP convention, abortion was barely discussed at all.delegates were evenly divided on the question of an anti-abortion constitutional amendment.
Ms. Johnson made a passionate statement to the platform committee.she was talking to herself.
the two GOP candidates could have avoided trouble.they had framed the issue first.
the two GOP candidates could have avoided trouble if they had framed the issue first.The net loser in the next few years is the right-to-life side.
exit polls from the 1988 election had single-issue, pro-life voters giving Mr. Bush about five more percentage points of support than pro-choice voters gave Michael Dukakis.the Supreme Court's opening of debate may have changed even that.
Polls are no substitute for principle.they'll do for some politicians.
Oklahoma official Robert Fulton lost a chance for a senior job in the Department of Health and Human Services.right-to-life activists opposed him.
Oklahoma official Robert Fulton lost a chance for a senior job in the Department of Health and Human Services.right-to-life activists opposed him.
Caldwell Butler, a conservative former congressman, was barred from a Legal Services post.he gave wrong answers on abortion.
Caldwell Butler, a conservative former congressman, was barred from a Legal Services post.he gave wrong answers on abortion.
the White House appeased right-to-lifers by surrounding him with pro-life deputies.Mr. Sullivan waffled on abortion last year.
Their views on health care and welfare didn't much matter.HHS spends billions a year on both.
they may want to contain their glee.Democrats can gloat at all this for now.
Roe v..Wade pre-empted political debate.the extremes blossomed.
that higher revenue, strong crude oil prices and higher natural gas prices offset declines in production of oil, gas and plant liquids.the company cited cost-reduction moves and interest income.
that the commission's order won't have much practical impact.the named companies no longer use the type of cooperative rating bureaus attacked by the FTC.
that were closed.the bailout legislation was enacted.
You need to buy the entire lot.get out your checkbooks.
Bonds due 1991-1996 carry 6.70% coupons.bonds due 1997-2000 carry 6 3/4% coupons.
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. -- $500 million of Remic mortgage securities being offered in 12 classes by Salomon Brothers Inc.$400 million of Freddie Mac Remic mortgage securities is being offered in 10 classes by Kidder, Peabody & Co.
The offerings bring Freddie Mac's 1989 Remic issuance to $32.6 billion and its total volume to $46.5 billion.the program began in February 1988.
Mitsubishi Trust & Banking Corp. (Japan) -- 200 million Swiss francs of privately placed convertible notes due March 31, 1994, with a fixed 0.75% coupon at par, via Union Bank of Switzerland.the company issued 300 million marks of convertible bonds with an indicated 2 3/4% coupon due March 31, 1995, at par, via Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale Bank.
to be determined.terms are fixed Oct. 25.
to buy computers.we can get more information.
First they get us to buy computers so we can get more information.the computers give us more information than we can ever read.
Old network hands have started to turn off the network.they don't have time to wade through the muck.
$40,000 a year.the cost of all the news wires is included.
NewsEdge is pricey: $7,500 a year for a limited version, $40,000 a year if the cost of all the news wires is included.it works best in high-powered personal computers.
NewsEdge is pricey: $7,500 a year for a limited version, $40,000 a year if the cost of all the news wires is included..And it works best in high-powered personal computers.some investors and consultants who have tried it are enthusiastic.
to sort through news wire items.they come in.
They want the full press releases on printer announcements by their competition.It tracks personnel and financial announcements by NEC's distributors and customers.
the computer will also supply stories that mention "I.B.M., International Business Machines, or Big Blue.a customer asks for stories about "IBM.
Individual Inc. 's technology goes beyond word searches by using a computerized thesaurus.If a customer asks for stories about "IBM," the computer will supply stories that mention "I.B.M., International Business Machines, or Big Blue.
Individual Inc. 's technology goes beyond word searches by using a computerized thesaurus.Individual Inc. 's computers can weigh the value of an article based on how closely the story matches the subscriber's interest area.
It compares the position of key words in the story; words in the headline or first paragraph get a higher value.it calculates how often the words appear in the story compared with how often they appear in the entire data base.
The computers find all the key words they can.the editors confirm every one.
to code news releases by topic in order to select items for each subscriber.The humans write abstracts of articles from some 200 computer industry publications.
Pinpoint's computers pick the most relevant for each subscriber and lay them out in a three-to-five-page newsletter format.all the articles are coded and put in a data base.
what's junk.what's important.
to be automatically categorized as top priority.it comes from certain designated senders or requires action in the next couple of days.
that Beyond will refine the product.the message will be smart enough to know to come back and bother you again next week.
that Beyond will refine the product "so the message will be smart enough to know to come back and bother you again next week.if a user is busy, "he can set it for crisis mode: `Don't bother me with reports until Monday.
And he can set it for crisis mode.a user is busy.
The MIT project devised ways for E-mail to be automatically categorized as top priority if it comes from certain designated senders or requires action in the next couple of days.A program called Notes is designed to sort E-mail sent within work groups.
Notes, which is designed for advanced computers that display graphics, allows mail senders to put different logos on their mail.A daily news briefing from the company librarian would have a distinctive format on the screen, just as a paper version would have.
A New York Stock Exchange arbitration panel ordered Dean Witter to pay $404,294 in back bonuses to William Kelly, the company's former head of high-yield, high-risk junk-bond trading and sales.It awarded $196,785 in back bonuses to former trader Michael Newcomb and $69,105 in fees to the two men's attorneys.
reflecting strong gains in its tobacco and distilled spirits businesses.which has businesses in life insurance, office products and hardware, and home-improvement products.
WASHINGTON LIES LOW.the stock market's roller-coaster ride.
Lawmakers, haunted by charges that some of their comments contributed to the 1987 crash, generally shy away from calls for sweeping new legislation.a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will quiz SEC Chairman Breeden Wednesday, and Treasury Secretary Brady will go before the Senate Banking panel Thursday.
But a House Energy and Commerce subcommittee will quiz SEC Chairman Breeden Wednesday.Treasury Secretary Brady will go before the Senate Banking panel Thursday.
The market's wild week may speed along the market-reform legislation that has been pending for months in the aftermath of the 1987 crash.It may expedite the SEC's modest pending changes in junk-bond disclosure rules and intensify the Treasury's look at plans for giving new tax breaks on dividends and raising taxes on short-term trades by pension funds.
the cautious secretary of state is so far unwilling to cut U.S. economic or military aid to force Israeli cooperation.Baker remains furious both at Shamir, for backing down on the elections, and at Shamir's rival, Peres, for political ineptitude in forcing a premature cabinet vote on Baker's plan.
Despite seeing his plan for Israeli-Palestinian elections wither, the cautious secretary of state is so far unwilling to cut U.S. economic or military aid to force Israeli cooperation.some U.S. officials fear PLO chief Arafat is getting cold feet and may back off from his recent moderation and renunciation of terrorism.
Darman now blames the clash on miscommunication.House GOP leader Michel, who carried the offer to him, observes, "I was speaking English at the time, and quite loud so I could be understood.
was speaking English at the time, and quite loud.I could be understood.
Republicans as well as Democrats were angered by the budget director's rejection of Speaker Foley's effort to expedite a deficitcutting measure.Darman suggests such tensions will dissipate quickly.
almost anybody can.I can show signs of maturity.
Sullivan said he had "reservations about any blanket prohibitions on medical research.he was confirmed.
Before he was confirmed, Sullivan said he had "reservations about any blanket prohibitions on medical research.now, an official says, he is "surrounded by right-to-lifers," who contend that any breakthroughs in fetal-tissue research could increase the demand for abortions.
Defense experts say joint projects are increasingly squeezed by budget pressures and the desire to save domestic jobs.some fear rising protectionism as European unity nears.
some also fear rising protectionism.European unity nears.
she airs a TV commercial using pro-choice buzzwords.she opposes abortion in almost all cases.
liberals now probably won't put up a major struggle against him.mulling a fight.
Other conservatives thought to be on the administration's short list include Washington lawyer Michael Uhlmann, who was passed over for the No. 2 job at the Justice Department, and Marshall Breger, chairman of a U.S. agency on administration.The Bush administration would like to nominate a woman.
A GOP Senate fund-raising letter from Sen. Burns of Montana is made to appear personally written.its opening line is, "Please excuse my handwriting.
A GOP Senate fund-raising letter from Sen. Burns of Montana is made to appear personally written, and its opening line is, "Please excuse my handwriting.Burns confesses in an interview: "That's not my handwriting.
even more competition lies ahead.a key member of the San Diego Yacht Club team is splitting off to form his own team.
Peter Isler, the winning navigator in the past two America's Cup challenges, has split from the team led by Dennis Conner, skipper of the victorious Stars & Stripes, to form his own team for the next contest in 1992.in addition to a crack team of sailors, Mr. Isler has lined up some real brass to help him finance the syndicate.
a new yacht will cost about $3 million alone.sailing syndicate budgets can easily run to $25 million for a Cup challenge.
Pending an appeal by the New Zealand team, led by Michael Fay, the finals for the next Cup challenge are scheduled to be held in mid-1992 in San Diego.because of the uncertainty of the outcome of the suit, Mr. Conner's team has done little to begin gearing up to defend its title.
it's hard to start your fund-raising or design.you don't know what the rules of the game are.
The Conner team won't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors.the suit is resolved and the race site is determined.
until the suit is resolved.the race site is determined.
The Conner team won't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors until the suit is resolved and the race site is determined.the syndicate's budget could easily reach $30 million.
The Conner team won't be able to negotiate with corporate sponsors until the suit is resolved and the race site is determined, Mr. Smith said, and the syndicate's budget could easily reach $30 million.the formation of the new syndicate has to do with Mr. Isler's desire to skipper his own team and begin planning now, rather than any falling out between the two sportsmen.
Of course I'd rather have a computer software firm in my backyard than a hazardous waste incinerator.I'd also rather live next door to an incinerator than to some of the hog farms I've seen (and smelt) in these parts.
Of course I'd rather have a computer software firm in my backyard than a hazardous waste incinerator.But I'd rather live next door to an incinerator than to some of the hog farms I've seen (and smelt) in these parts.
But I'd also rather live next door to an incinerator than to some of the hog farms I've seen (and smelt) in these parts.An incinerator is probably better than having nobody next door.
what hope have we for dealing with the wastes our economy produces.the most environmentally safe way of dealing with a national problem cannot be built in Atchinson County.
We know they are dangerous.if handled with care, their benefits far outweigh any risk to the environment.
but their benefits far outweigh any risk to the environment.handled with care.
doesn't mean the city no longer owns the work of art.Stamford, Conn., High School did nothing when its valuable 1930s mural was thrown in the trash.
Just because Stamford, Conn., High School did nothing.its valuable 1930s mural was thrown in the trash.
it eventually was turned over to Hiram Hoelzer, a professional art restorer.the discarded mural was found outside the school by a concerned Stamford graduate.
In 1986, Stamford officials thanked Mr. Hoelzer for taking care of the mural -- and demanded he return it as soon as possible.Mr. Hoelzer sued Stamford.
that the city had abandoned the artwork.that it had waited too long to reclaim it.
Mr. Hoelzer, however, sued Stamford, claiming that the city had abandoned the artwork and that it had waited too long to reclaim it.Judge Louis L. Stanton of federal court in Manhattan ruled that the city couldn't be faulted for waiting too long because it didn't realize until 1986 that its ownership of the painting was in dispute.
that the city couldn't be faulted for waiting too long.it didn't realize until 1986 that its ownership of the painting was in dispute.
But Judge Louis L. Stanton of federal court in Manhattan ruled that the city couldn't be faulted for waiting too long because it didn't realize until 1986 that its ownership of the painting was in dispute.The judge ruled that the painting wasn't abandoned because officials didn't intend for it to be thrown away and were unaware that the workmen had discarded it.
that the painting wasn't abandoned.officials didn't intend for it to be thrown away and were unaware that the workmen had discarded it.
The prices of corn futures contracts jumped amid rumors that the Soviet Union is keeping up its dizzying October buying binge of U.S. corn.Rumors of Soviet interest pushed up the prices of soybean futures contracts.
that the Midwest harvest was disrupted by a freakishly early snow storm that dumped several inches in parts of Indiana and Ohio.The harvest delays are expected to be temporary.
One price-depressing development was the lower-than-expected increase of only 0.2% in the consumer price index for September.that the "core inflation rate was low at 0.2%.
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. will reduce its managerial staff by 15,000 through attrition; the oil market turned weaker; there wasn't any investor demand for bullion.the dollar strengthened during the day, putting pressure on gold.
Initial unemployment claims rose by 62,000 last week; American Telephone & Telegraph Co. will reduce its managerial staff by 15,000 through attrition; the oil market turned weaker; there wasn't any investor demand for bullion; and the dollar strengthened during the day, putting pressure on gold.economic circumstances are such that both South Africa and the Soviet Union, the principal gold and platinum producers, are being forced to continue selling the metals.
Both are in great need of foreign exchange.South Africa is also under pressure to meet foreign loan commitments.
Both are in great need of foreign exchange.and South Africa is under pressure to meet foreign loan commitments.
which prompted concern that it might signal a similar sharp slowing of the U.S. economy.and reduced demand for copper, a leading industrial metal.
that it might signal a similar sharp slowing of the U.S. economy and thus reduced demand for copper, a leading industrial metal.In recent days there has been increased purchasing of copper in London.
The increasing likelihood that Cananea and Highland Valley will soon return to production may have cut some of that purchasing.even if any of these mines begin operating soon, their output won't be significant until at least the end of the year.
their output won't be significant until at least the end of the year.any of these mines begin operating soon.
but even if any of these mines begin operating soon, their output won't be significant until at least the end of the year.there will still be a significant need for copper over the next three months.
So there will still be a significant need for copper over the next three months.the long-term production problems may be easing.
West Texas Intermediate for November delivery fell 14 cents a barrel to $20.42.so-called outer month contracts finished higher.
But so-called outer month contracts finished higher.December contracts for WTI rose 17 cents to $20.42.
Most energy futures opened lower, following Wednesday's market downturn.a flurry of late trading yesterday beefed up prices.
17 potential clients had called seeking the services of the self-proclaimed King of Torts.his office's telephone service was restored yesterday morning.
Suits are likely to be filed against engineering firms, contractors and developers, as well as against local-government agencies.lawyers looking to cash in on the quake may have a tough time once their cases reach a judge.
But lawyers looking to cash in on the quake may have a tough time.their cases reach a judge.
whether anybody is going to get sued.whether they have liability or not.
We still have people wandering around in a daze in San Francisco worrying about whether it's going to rain tonight.that won't stop plaintiffs' lawyers from seeking a little room for maneuvering.
In San Francisco an earthquake was a near certainty.engineering firms, construction contractors and developers can be sued for not keeping structures up to standard, and government agencies can be held accountable for failing to properly protect citizens from such a foreseeable disaster, if negligence can be proven.
Therefore, engineering firms, construction contractors and developers can be sued for not keeping structures up to standard.government agencies can be held accountable for failing to properly protect citizens from such a foreseeable disaster, if negligence can be proven.
and government agencies can be held accountable for failing to properly protect citizens from such a foreseeable disaster.negligence can be proven.
that Interstate 880 suffered serious damage.surrounding buildings appeared to sustain no damage whatsoever.
We won't know.the smoke clears.
We won't know until the smoke clears.yes, we're looking into it.
that plaintiffs' lawyers taking such an approach will have little success in pursuing their claims.that the facts of each case must be looked at individually.
Plaintiffs will argue that damaged structures weren't built to proper design standards.if defendants can prove that they met San Francisco's stringent building codes, "that's probably going to protect them.
But that's probably going to protect them.defendants can prove that they met San Francisco's stringent building codes.
The state is protected.plans and designs for public structures were approved ahead of time.
when plans and designs for public structures were approved ahead of time.when structures met previously approved standards.
The state is protected.structures met previously approved standards.
those defenses might well apply to the Bay Bridge collapse.if we get lawsuits out of the Bay Bridge.
I wouldn't get totally shocked.we get lawsuits out of the Bay Bridge.
it hasn't started yet.there's going to be a race to the courthouse.
Mr. Covert had to search through law books scattered on the floor of his office yesterday.Mr. Belli's courtyard was strewn with bricks.
he set up shop on the sidewalk in front of his town-house office and helped victims apply for federal aid -- free of charge.In a news release issued by Mr. Drivon, the trial lawyers association promised free assistance to victims.
they really hold it all in.accountants aren't noted as "being deeply emotional.
that the Deloitte firm in the U.K. is filing the suit to get even with the merged Deloitte-Touche firm for keeping major auditing work in England.General Motors Corp., a Deloitte audit client has agreed to keep its annual $18 million world-wide audit and associated tax work with the merged Deloitte-Touche firm, to be known as Deloitte & Touche in the U.S.
it is benefiting greatly from fallout from the Deloitte-Touche merger.Coopers hasn't been courted by other major accounting firms for a merger.
In New York, Harris Amhowitz, general counsel of Coopers, said Coopers "was aware of the litigation.he declined further comment.
but he declined further comment.He declined to comment on the name that Coopers would use in England if Deloitte UK won its litigation to keep its name.
that Coopers would use in England.Deloitte UK won its litigation to keep its name.
that enforcement efforts are working here, "albeit at a slower and more halting pace than we would like.that Washington's "drug-related murder rate is intolerably high.
Mr. Bennett declined to name the area officials who he believes have impeded plans for building more federal prisons to ease Washington's problem.other Bush administration officials have criticized Maryland Gov. William Schaefer for blocking the use of possible sites in that state.
But other Bush administration officials have criticized Maryland Gov. William Schaefer for blocking the use of possible sites in that state.Administration officials have said that Washington Mayor Marion Barry has delayed consideration of sites in the city.
Of his successes in Washington, Mr. Bennett stressed that existing federal prisons have taken custody of 375 local inmates.He noted that the federal Drug Enforcement Administration has established a federal-local task force responsible since April for 106 arrests and more than $2 million in seizures of drug dealers' assets.
The Defense Department has lent the Washington U.S. attorney 10 prosecutors.the Federal Bureau of Investigation has provided crime laboratory facilities and training.
of what to do.emergency strikes.
that they would be able to feed and care for their people for as long as five days.they became isolated in a crisis.
you won't be able to bring up your vital business functions.you don't save your critical people.
Ms. Masaki-Schatz used the occasion to distribute a three-page memo of "Earthquake Tips" to 1,200 ARCO employees.ARCO's head office wasn't affected by this week's tremors.
You need to capitalize on these moments.you have everyone's attention.
The ARCO memo urges employees to keep certain supplies at work, such as solid shoes and "heavy gloves to clear debris.It recommends that employees be aware of everyday office items that could be used for emergency care or shelter.
Pantyhose and men's ties could be used for slings.removable wooden shelves might aid in "breaking through office walls.
that would take over.payroll operations in Pasadena were disrupted.
At Hewlett-Packard Co., the earthquake came.the company was reviewing its own emergency procedures.
We were talking about scheduling a practice drill for November.we had a real one in the afternoon.
Sales and service employees were asked to report to work to help Bay area clients who called with computer problems.Hewlett-Packard called in its systems experts to restore its own computer operations.
they still lost touch for more than 24 hours with 15 branches in the affected areas.officials of the savings and loan, a unit of Great Western Financial Corp., used some of their new plans and equipment during this week's quake.
Although officials of the savings and loan, a unit of Great Western Financial Corp., used some of their new plans and equipment during this week's quake.they lost touch for more than 24 hours with 15 branches in the affected areas.
if employees were injured.vaults were broken open.
As it turned out, bank employees weren't hurt.the vaults withstood the jolts.
As it turned out, bank employees weren't hurt and the vaults withstood the jolts.We need to educate people that they need to get to a phone somehow, some way, to let someone know what their status is.
Occidental Petroleum Corp. holds regular evacuation drills and stocks food, oxygen and non-prescription drugs at checkpoints in its 16-story headquarters.The company maintains rechargeable flashlights in offices and changes its standby supply of drinking water every three months.
Walt Disney Co. 's Disneyland in Anaheim, Calif., stocks rescue equipment, medical supplies, and enough food and water to feed at least 10,000 visitors for as long as five days in the event that a calamity isolates the theme park.The park has emergency centers.
Hurricane Hugo, an Atlantic storm, didn't affect Vista.two other major storms have threatened operations so far this year, most recently Hurricane Jerry this week.
the company sends employees home and shuts down operations in stages.hurricanes can change course rapidly.
Empty tank cars will float away on you.you get a big tidal surge.
But two other major storms have threatened operations so far this year, most recently Hurricane Jerry this week.Vista officials realize they're relatively fortunate.
A situation like San Francisco is so frightening.there's no warning.
he suffered.the Bank Board closed the Independent American Savings Association of Irving, Texas.
he suffered.the Bank Board closed the Independent American Savings Association of Irving, Texas.
Independent American's net worth dropped from $75 million to a negative $400 million.under the control of federal regulators.
that restaurant fired her.she was pregnant.
that Ms. Levine was fired.she refused to accept a lower paying, less visible job upon reaching her sixth month of pregnancy.
that she would be demoted to his assistant.he felt customers would be uncomfortable with a pregnant maitre'd.
They wanted a svelte-looking woman.a pregnant woman is not svelte.
We don't hire fat people.we don't hire cripples.
We don't hire fat people and we don't hire cripples.pregnant women are fat.
she was being fired as maitre'd.she was pregnant.
Ms. Levine had never been fired.she had stopped working at the restaurant.
they would continue to represent their clients.the government pays their tab as court-appointed lawyers.
the government will oppose any efforts to bring in a new defense team.it would delay a retrial.
to exercise influence.the Senate votes on the impeachment today.
The publisher was able to register soaring quarter net income because of a onetime gain on the sale of its cable-TV system.operating profit fell 35% to $16.4 million.
Next year, earnings will hold steady.we just don't see a big turnaround in the trend in advertising.
It will be hard to do handstands.real linage starts heading back up.
With the Edison plant coming on line next summer, the Times is facing some tough earnings comparison in the future.many newspapers are facing similar comparisons.
The sale of the company's cable franchise brought an after-tax gain of $193.3 million, part of which will be used to reduce debt.The company has a stock-repurchase plan.
That's a good sign.profits are stable during a time revenue is in the trough.
Investors celebrated the second anniversary of Black Monday with a buying spree in both stocks and bonds.the dollar was mixed.
Since the 1987 crash, the industrials have soared more than 54%.the widely watched market barometer is about 4% below its record high set earlier this month.
The stock-market rally was led by blue-chip issues, but, unlike Monday's rebound, was broadly based.over-the-counter stocks, led by technology issues, outleaped the industrial average.
That news, plus recent signs of economic sluggishness, greatly increases pressure on the Federal Reserve to ease credit further.which would be good news for stocks.
I see a lot of evidence indicating a slower economy.that means my interest-rate outlook has a downward tilt.
consumer prices rose only 0.2% last month.Despite the inflation news, several Fed officials fear consumer-price pressures will intensify because they insist the economy is stronger than generally believed.
consumer-price pressures will intensify.the economy is stronger than generally believed.
Despite the inflation news, several Fed officials still fear consumer-price pressures will intensify because they insist the economy is stronger than generally believed.Wall Street analysts expect further signs of economic weakness in government reports during the next few weeks.
that will cinch the case for another shot of credit-easing within a month or so.so.
If so, that will cinch the case for another shot of credit-easing within a month or so.That is expected to persuade banks to cut their prime lending rate, a benchmark rate on many corporate and consumer loans, by half a percentage point, to 10%.
We're not out of the woods yet by any means.the economy "is slowing enough to give the Federal Reserve leeway to reduce interest rates.
But the economy "is slowing enough to give the Federal Reserve leeway to reduce interest rates.many individual investors are leery about stocks because of fresh signs of fragility in the huge junk-bond market.
But many individual investors are leery about stocks because of fresh signs of fragility in the huge junk-bond market.Investors are anxious about today's "witching hour," the monthly expiration of stock-index futures and options, and options on individual stocks.
In New York late yesterday, it was at 141.70 yen, up from 141.45 yen late Wednesday.it fell to 1.8470 marks from 1.8485.
Voters can "buy" one of two brands a Republican brand that believes in the minimalist state and in the virtues of private markets over the vices of public action, and a Democratic brand that believes in big government and in public intervention to remedy the excesses attendant to the pursuit of private interest.they select their political agents.
Voters can "buy" one of two brands a Republican brand that believes in the minimalist state and in the virtues of private markets over the vices of public action, and a Democratic brand that believes in big government and in public intervention to remedy the excesses attendant to the pursuit of private interest.they select their political agents.
Congressional representatives have two basic responsibilities.voting in office.
If they put a Republican into office, not only will they acquire less in terms of local benefits.their selected legislator will be relatively powerless to prevent other legislators from "bringing home the bacon" to their respective constituencies.
Each legislator, after all, is only one out of 535.it comes to national policy making.
such a president is also likely to be more effective at preventing other districts/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits.a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter's particular district/state.
Although a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter's particular district/state.such a president is likely to be more effective at preventing other districts/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits.
Although a GOP president may limit local benefits to the voter's particular district/state, such a president is also likely to be more effective at preventing other districts/states and their legislators from bringing home the local benefits.The individual voter's standing will be enhanced through lower taxes.
Prior to the election of Franklin Roosevelt as president and the advent of the New Deal, government occupied a much smaller role in society.the prisoner's dilemma problem confronting voters in races for Congress was considerably less severe.
Third, the theory suggests why legislators who pay too much attention to national policy making relative to local benefit-seeking have lower security in office.first-term members of the House, once the most vulnerable of incumbents, have become virtually immune to defeat.
they were more vulnerable to defeat.these freshmen placed far more emphasis on their partisan role in national policy making.
First, why ticket splitting has increased and taken the peculiar pattern that it has over the past half century Second, it explains why voters hold Congress in disdain but generally love their own congressional representatives Third, the theory suggests why legislators who pay too much attention to national policy making relative to local benefit-seeking have lower security in office Fourth, the theory indicates why the Republican Party may have a difficult time attracting viable candidates for congressional office Fifth, the theory may provide at least a partial reason for why ticket splitting has been particularly pronounced in the South.the theory suggests why Republicans generally have fared better in Senate races than in campaigns for the House.
Since local benefit-seeking matters more.national policy making matters less in the lower chamber of Congress.
this is precisely the pattern one would expect.Republicans are less willing to engage in local benefit-seeking than their Democratic counterparts.
Second Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking.the key assumption is valid.
that such votes reflect national policy making.that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking.
Second Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking.This is what the data indicate, particularly in the case of the House.
First, economists James Bennett and Thomas DiLorenzo find that GOP senators turn back roughly 10% more of their allocated personal staff budgets than Democrats do..To the extent that the primary duty of personal staff involves local benefit-seeking, this indicates that political philosophy leads congressional Republicans to pay less attention to narrow constituent concerns..Second, if the key assumption is valid, Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking..This is indeed what the data indicate, particularly in the case of the House.as shown in the table, Democrats allocate a higher proportion of their personal staffs to district offices -- where local benefit-seeking duties matter more and national policy making activities matter less relative to Washington offices.
where local benefit-seeking duties matter more.national policy making activities matter less relative to Washington offices.
Finally, as shown in the table, Democrats allocate a higher proportion of their personal staffs to district offices -- where local benefit-seeking duties matter more and national policy making activities matter less relative to Washington offices.An examination of changes in personal staffing decisions in the Senate between 1986 and 1987 (when control of that body changed party hands) reveals that the personal staffing differences noted in the table cannot be attributed to the disproportionate control Democrats exercise, due to their majority-party status, over other resources such as committee staff.
Put more simply, GOP candidates for president are looked on more kindly by voters than Republican candidates for the Senate.the prisoner's dilemma is more severe.
Put more simply, GOP candidates for president are looked on more kindly by voters than Republican candidates for the Senate.the prisoner's dilemma is more severe.
Put more simply, GOP candidates for president are looked on more kindly by voters than Republican candidates for the Senate when the prisoner's dilemma is more severe.ticket splitting appears to take the same peculiar pattern at the state government level as it does at the federal level.
State government is more typically split along Republican-governor/Democratic-legislature lines than the reverse.that, holding other factors constant, the difference between a state's major-party vote going to the Republican gubernatorial candidate and the Republican share of the lower state house is a positive function of the state tax rate.
First that GOP senators turn back roughly 10% more of their allocated personal staff budgets than Democrats do. Second, if the key assumption is valid, Democrats should have lower attendance rates on roll-call votes than Republicans do to the extent that such votes reflect national policy making and that participating in such votes takes away from the time a legislator could otherwise devote to local benefit-seeking. Finally, as shown in the table, Democrats allocate a higher proportion of their personal staffs to district offices An additional piece of evidence from the Senate: Holding other factors constant, such as incumbency advantages and regional factors, the difference between popular votes for Republican presidential and senatorial candidates in states conducting a Senate election turns out to be a positive function of how onerous the federal government's tax burden is per state (a progressive tax rate hits higher-income states harder Moreover, ticket splitting appears to take the same peculiar pattern at the state government level as it does at the federal level.at both the federal and state government levels at least part of the seemingly irrational behavior voters display in the voting booth may have an exceedingly rational explanation.
The measure provides no money for the promised payments until then.beginning in fiscal 1991, the government would be committed to meeting annual payments of as much as $500 million until the total liability of approximately $1.25 billion is paid.
but beginning in fiscal 1991, the government would be committed to meeting annual payments of as much as $500 million.the total liability of approximately $1.25 billion is paid.
The action came.Congress sent to President Bush a fiscal 1990 bill providing an estimated $156.7 billion for the Departments of Labor, Education, Health and Human Services.
Reversing an eight-year federal policy, the measure supports Medicaid abortions in cases of rape and incest.Mr. Bush has so far refused to support any specific exemption beyond instances in which the mother's life is in danger.
Mr. Bush's veto power puts him a commanding position in the narrowly divided House.a vote to override his position could well pick up new support because of the wealth of health and education programs financed in the underlying bill.
An estimated $1.32 billion is provided for next year's census.negotiators stripped a Senate-passed rider seeking to block the counting of illegal aliens.
Elsewhere in the Commerce Department, nearly $191.2 million is preserved for assistance programs under the Economic Development Administration.in a footnote to the fall of House Speaker James Wright this year, the conference voted to rescind $11.8 million in unspent EDA funds for a Fort Worth, Texas, stockyards project that figured in ethics charges against the former Democratic leader.
And in a footnote to the fall of House Speaker James Wright this year, the conference voted to rescind $11.8 million in unspent EDA funds for a Fort Worth, Texas, stockyards project that figured in ethics charges against the former Democratic leader.Fiscal pressures forced the adoption of new fees charged by federal agencies.
Fiscal pressures also forced the adoption of new fees charged by federal agencies.an 18% increase in the Securities and Exchange Commission's budget would be financed entirely by an added $26 million in filing fees.
The bill doesn't include an estimated $1.9 billion in supplemental anti-drug funds for Justice Department and law-enforcement accounts that are still in conference with the House.yesterday's agreement would make it easier for state governments to handle the promised aid by deferring for one year a scheduled 50% increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants.
But yesterday's agreement would make it easier for state governments to handle the promised aid by deferring for one year a scheduled 50% increase in the required state matching funds for law-enforcement grants.the measure adjusts the current funding formula to promise smaller states such as New Hampshire and Delaware a minimum allocation of $1.6 million each in drug grants, or three times the current minimum.
The odd mix of departments in the bill makes it one of the more eclectic of the annual appropriations measures.the assorted provisions attached by lawmakers run from $1.5 million for a fish farm in Arkansas to a music festival in Moscow under the United States Information Agency.
An estimated $321 million is provided to maintain the program.Mr. Rudman also succeeded in attaching language seeking to curb the authority of the current board until new members are confirmed.
An estimated $321 million is provided to maintain the program.but Mr. Rudman succeeded in attaching language seeking to curb the authority of the current board until new members are confirmed.
in attaching language seeking to curb the authority of the current board.new members are confirmed.
The effective date of any new regulations by the current board would be delayed until Oct. 1 next year.the bill seeks to reverse efforts by the corporation to cut off funds to service organizations such as the Food Research and Action Center.
and the bill seeks to reverse efforts by the corporation to cut off funds to service organizations such as the Food Research and Action Center.The bill provides $620.5 million to meet U.S. contributions to international organizations and $80 million for peace-keeping activities.
Both accounts reflect significant increases from fiscal 1989.the amount for peace-keeping shows a 27% cut from the administration's request.
Mercury said the action to improve its regulatory capital position is related directly to new capital requirements mandated by recently adopted federal legislation.Mercury said it extended its two-year advisory relationship with Montgomery Securities of San Francisco.
Stop me.I kill again.
The Members know they're doing wrong.they need help to restrain their darker compulsions.
Arkansas Democrat David Pryor spilled his guts on the Senate floor the other day.he'd joined the Finance Committee's early-morning pork-barrel revels.
Frankly I heard many, many people . . . opening champagne bottles and celebrating individual victories that some of us had accomplished in getting our little deal in the tax bill and winking at this person for slipping this in.I was walking back to get in my car.
I did not feel very good about myself.I was driving home.
We can applaud Mr. Pryor's moment of epiphany.we understand that he and his confreres need restraint lest they kill again.
We can applaud Mr. Pryor's moment of epiphany.we understand that he and his confreres need restraint lest they kill again.
that he and his confreres need restraint.they kill again.
The Coats bill isn't a pure line-item veto.it would apply only to spending bills.
The Coats bill isn't a pure line-item veto.it's a form of "enhanced rescission," giving a President a chance to rescind, or strike, specific spending items that just go too far.
Congress would have 20 days to reject the package with a 50% majority.then a President could veto that rejection.
Congress would have 20 days to reject the package with a 50% majority.but a President could veto that rejection.
but then a President could veto that rejection.Congress would need the usual two-thirds majority to override any veto.
Presidents Kennedy and Johnson were both big users of the impoundment power.Congress saw its chance against a weakened President Nixon and stripped it away.
Today a President can still send up spending rescissions.they're meaningless unless Congress has a guilty conscience and changes its mind.
but they're meaningless.Congress has a guilty conscience and changes its mind.
This is like asking foxes to feel remorse about chickens.naturally rescissions are almost never approved.
In 1987, President Reagan sent 73 rescissions back to the Hill.only 3% of the spending total was approved by Congress.
take place automatically.Congress acts.
The Members could still try to serve their constituents with special-interest goodies.the police (in the form of a President) would be there with a straitjacket if they really get crazy, as they do now.
but the police (in the form of a President) would be there with a straitjacket.they really get crazy.
President Bush has endorsed the idea.at least 50 sitting Senators have voted to support enhanced rescission authority in the past.
We're told Senator Pryor isn't yet a co-sponsor.if he and his colleagues are serious about kicking their compulsions, they'll sign up.
but they'll sign up.he and his colleagues are serious about kicking their compulsions.
Business and civic operations lurched back toward normalcy here.congressional officials estimated that the price tag for emergency assistance to earthquake-ravaged California would total at least $2.5 billion.
That is a minimum figure.I underscore minimum.
That is a minimum figure, and I underscore minimum," said House Speaker Thomas Foley (D., Wash.).conferring with California lawmakers.
The Office of Management and Budget has begun looking into legislation to provide more funds for earthquake repairs.California's 45-member delegation in the House is expected to propose that emergency funds be added to a stop-gap spending bill that the House Appropriations Committee is to consider Monday.
Banks indicated they were operating at greater than 90% of their usual capacity.a Nob Hill hotel said tourists had fled, leaving the previously full hotel with an 80% vacancy rate.
Securities-trading operations were moved to Bank of America's Concord office.foreign-exchange trading operations were shifted to Los Angeles.
Only five of 496 branches statewide remain closed.23 of 600 automated-teller machines remained out of order.
Many streets and sidewalks buckled.subterranean water mains and service connections ruptured.
California lawmakers are seeking changes in rules governing the federal highway relief program.more money can be made available for the state.
that opened in its walls.marble facings and ornamental plaster at the Beaux Arts City Hall broke off in the temblor.
142 claims were received in the first 24 hours after the quake.the company is braced for as many as 5,000 claims from its 35,000 residential and 35,000 business policyholders in the affected area.
Claims range from a scratched fender to a major processing plant.there were an awful lot of cars damaged in this.
California lawmakers want to eliminate temporarily a $100 million cap on the amount of federal highway relief for each state for each disaster, as well as a prohibition on using the emergency highway aid to repair toll roads.under the highway-relief program, the federal government provides 100% of emergency highway aid for only the first 90 days of a repair effort.
For interstate highways, the federal share normally would drop to 90% of the cost of repairs.the state would have to pick up the remainder of the cost.
In addition, under the highway-relief program, the federal government provides 100% of emergency highway aid for only the first 90 days of a repair effort.lawmakers want to extend the period for 100% federal funding for several months.
California lawmakers want to eliminate temporarily a $100 million cap on the amount of federal highway relief for each state for each disaster, as well as a prohibition on using the emergency highway aid to repair toll roads.Those changes would apply to two areas hit hard by Hurricane Hugo -- South Carolina and the U.S. Virgin Islands, according to an aide to Rep. Fazio.
Banks indicated they were operating at greater than 90% of their usual capacity, but a Nob Hill hotel said tourists had fled, leaving the previously full hotel with an 80% vacancy rate..City crews tallied the wreckage to buildings, but lacked a clear sense of how gravely transportation arteries were disabled..Among the city's banks, Bank of America said all but eight of its 850 branches were open..The closed branches, in San Francisco, Hayward, Santa Clara and Santa Cruz, sustained structural damage..Power failures kept just seven of its 1,500 automated-teller machines off-line..Securities-trading operations were moved to Bank of America's Concord office, and foreign-exchange trading operations were shifted to Los Angeles, the bank said..Wells Fargo & Co. said its Emergency Operations Committee -- which met all night Tuesday -- moved its global-funds transfer system to El Monte, Calif., 500 miles to the south..Only five of 496 branches statewide remain closed, while 23 of 600 automated-teller machines remained out of order..The most extensive damage was in small towns near the quake's epicenter, 80 miles south of San Francisco..Santa Cruz County estimates total damage at nearly $600 million..Santa Clara County has a running total so far of $504 million, excluding the hard-hit city of Los Gatos..Oakland officials were still uncertain about the magnitude of structural damage late yesterday; a section of I-880, a twotiered highway, collapsed in Oakland, causing a majority of the deaths resulting from the quake..San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos estimated that damages to the city total $2 billion..That includes dwellings in the ravaged Marina district that must be demolished, peeled business facades south of Market Street, and houses in the city's outer Richmond district that were heaved off their foundations..Many streets and sidewalks buckled, and subterranean water mains and service connections ruptured..The federal funds would go to a range of programs, including the Federal Emergency Management Agency, highway construction accounts and the Small Business Administration, according to Rep. Vic Fazio (D., Calif.)..FEMA, which coordinates federal disaster relief, is already strapped by the costs of cleaning up after Hurricane Hugo, which hit the Carolinas last month..It is likely to get as much as $800 million initially in additional funds, and eventually could get more than $1 billion, according to Mr. Fazio, a member of the House Appropriations Committee..White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said there is enough money on hand to deal with immediate requirements..The Bush administration has at its disposal $273 million in funds remaining from the $1.1 billion Congress released for the cleanup after Hurricane Hugo.."We feel we have the money necessary to handle the immediate, short-term requirements," Mr. Fitzwater said..He added that the Office of Management and Budget, the Transportation Department and other agencies are "developing longer-term legislation" that should be ready soon..Much of the cost of cleaning up after the earthquake will involve repairing highways and bridges..California lawmakers are seeking changes in rules governing the federal highway relief program so more money can be made available for the state..Some things can't be repaired..The Asian Art Museum in Golden Gate Park reports $10 million to $15 million in damage, including shattered porcelains and stone figures..Its neighbor, the De Young Museum, totaled $3 million to $5 million in structural damage and shattered sculpture..The city's main library is closed because of fissures that opened in its walls, and marble facings and ornamental plaster at the Beaux Arts City Hall broke off in the temblor..The ground along the Embarcaderothe street that skirts the city's eastern boundary and piers -- dropped six inches after the quake, wreaking major damage to at least one of the piers..At San Francisco International Airport, shock waves wrecked the control tower, knocking down computers and shattering glass..Offices of the city's Rent Board were destroyed..Mayor Agnos's $2 billion estimate doesn't include damage to freeway arteries leading into the city, some of which remained closed..A major chunk of the $2 billion is expected to be eaten up by overtime for city workers deployed in the emergency, said a spokesman for Mr. Agnos. "All of the city's $5.9 million emergency reserve was spent in the first 24 hours" on overtime salaries, he said..Insurers struggled to to get a firm grasp on the volume of claims pouring into their offices..At Fireman's Fund Corp., a spokesman said 142 claims were received in the first 24 hours after the quake, and the company is braced for as many as 5,000 claims from its 35,000 residential and 35,000 business policyholders in the affected area.."Claims range from a scratched fender -- and there were an awful lot of cars damaged in this -- to a major processing plant," a spokesman said. "We're delivering a check for $750,000 to an automotive business in Berkeley that burned on Tuesday.".Fireman's is part of a $38 million syndicate that supplies business interruption insurance to the city on the Bay Bridge, which must pay employees during the three weeks or more it is expected to be out of service and deprived of toll income..California lawmakers want to eliminate temporarily a $100 million cap on the amount of federal highway relief for each state for each disaster, as well as a prohibition on using the emergency highway aid to repair toll roads..In addition, under the highway-relief program, the federal government provides 100% of emergency highway aid for only the first 90 days of a repair effort..After that, the federal share diminishes..For interstate highways, the federal share normally would drop to 90% of the cost of repairs, and the state would have to pick up the remainder of the cost..But lawmakers want to extend the period for 100% federal funding for several months..Those changes also would apply to two areas hit hard by Hurricane Hugo -- South Carolina and the U.S. Virgin Islands, according to an aide to Rep. Fazio.the FEMA announced a toll-free telephone number (800-462-9029) to expedite service to victims of the earthquake.
The state is calling in a flotilla of navy landing vessels and other boats to expand ferry service across the bay and hopes to add numerous new bus routes and train departures to help alleviate the traffic problem.state officials are urging freight haulers to bypass many of the area's main highways and to travel late at night or during predawn hours.
she's not going home.the {World Series} is over.
There are no easy choices in Cambodia.we can't imagine that it benefits the U.S. to become the catalyst for an all-too-familiar process that could end in another round of horror in Cambodia.
the State Department is talking again about accepting an "interim" coalition government in the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh.Vietnam appears to have pulled out its occupation army.
the State Department is talking again about accepting an "interim" coalition government in the Cambodian capital of Phnom Penh.Vietnam appears to have pulled out its occupation army.
Within two years, the moderates were exiled or in prison, Nicaragua had gone communist.the Sandinistas were building one of the biggest armies in Latin America and threatening their neighbors.
it turned out they were opening the door to communist domination.the Western powers bowed to pressure for such a coalition.
it turned out they were opening the door to communist domination.the Western powers bowed to pressure for such a coalition.
It's not clear which crew of communists might prevail in a coalition government.the one good bet is that the non-communists would disappear.
to die of malaria and malnourishment.building Cambodia's equivalent of the Berlin Wall near the Thai border.
The Hun Sen regime has sent thousands of conscript laborers to die of malaria and malnourishment while building Cambodia's equivalent of the Berlin Wall near the Thai border.The Khmer Rouge carry an unsurpassed record for Cambodian tyranny.
The world might want to believe that the Khmer Rouge can't still be such bad guys, just as in the late 1970s it was reluctant to credit the reports of genocide then taking place.there is no solid evidence that the Khmer Rouge have changed.
But there is no solid evidence that the Khmer Rouge have changed.it's difficult to swallow the notion that Mr. Baker is willing to accept conditions that would help the Khmer Rouge set up shop again in Phnom Penh.
True, Prince Sihanouk backs the idea of such a coalition, at least for this week.Prince Sihanouk has backed all sorts of ideas over the years, and done rather better by himself than by Cambodia.
So it's difficult to swallow the notion that Mr. Baker is willing to accept conditions that would help the Khmer Rouge set up shop again in Phnom Penh.should the U.S. worry much about offending China.
U.S. diplomacy has done it before.it will likely do it again.
The administration and Congress have lately tangoed around the idea of sending military aid to Cambodia's non-communists.now the possibility of "diplomatic movement" (Vietnam's withdrawal, the Baker initiative) has put that plan on hold, with the proviso that if the going got rough, the U.S. would then rearm the opposition.
that the U.S. would then rearm the opposition.the going got rough.
it would be particularly awful to know that the United States sat on military aid and deprived these people of the means to settle their fate with at least a little honor.that day comes.
published by this company.that has interests in book publishing, fine china, oil services and investment banking.
It is eliminating the positions of president and chief operating officer, formerly held by Edward L. Marinaro.Mr. Marinaro has resigned from those posts and from the company's board.
that it had cash and marketable securities totaling $22.5 million on Sept. 30.stockholders' equity is $60.1 million.
Manufacturers frequently don't have anyone who is a specialist in natural gas.a specialist such as Clinton can save them substantial amounts of money.
Manufacturers frequently don't have anyone who is a specialist in natural gas.a specialist such as Clinton can save them substantial amounts of money.
The carpetbaggers have packed their bags and went.They're forgetting we're all Texans.
viewers discover they're watching a commercial for Lone Star Beer, the pride of Texas, a product of G. Heileman Brewing Co., a La Crosse, Wis., unit of Bond Corp.the music swells.
As the ad's tone implies, the Texas spirit is pretty xenophobic these days.Lone Star isn't alone in trying to take advantage of that.
the latest trend has been sparked, in part, by the state's recent hard economic times.advertisers have long appealed to Texans' state pride and prejudices.
That has taken some of the swagger out of natives who like to brag that Texas is the only state that was once a nation.it has increased their legendary resentment of outsiders.
In the past outlanders were accepted.passing a series of tests to prove they had the "right" Texas attitudes and "of course they had to be dipped for parasites.
In the past outlanders were accepted only after passing a series of tests to prove they had the "right" Texas attitudes.of course they had to be dipped for parasites.
that some of the most-jingoistic advertising comes courtesy of outsiders.Lone Star's Bond Corp. parent hails from Perth, Australia.
This plays right into the hands of the advertising agencies.the iced-tea radio campaign for Thomas J. Lipton Co., an Englewood Cliffs, N.J., unit of Anglo-Dutch Unilever Group, emphatically proclaims: "Real Texans do not wear dock-siders -- ever..Real Texans don't play paddleball, at least I hope not..This is football country..And another thing -- real Texans drink Lipton iced tea.
Real Texans do not wear dock-siders -- ever..Real Texans don't play paddleball, at least I hope not..This is football country.another thing -- real Texans drink Lipton iced tea.
Not exactly sophisticated market research.who cares as long as the campaigns work.
but who cares.the campaigns work.
but who cares.the campaigns work.
but who cares as long as the campaigns work.ad agencies insist that they do.
The North Texas Chevy Dealers recently had a record sales month.the debut of ad campaign that thumbs its nose at elite Easterners.
The North Texas Chevy Dealers recently had a record sales month after the debut of ad campaign that thumbs its nose at elite Easterners.deposits at NCNB Texas National Bank, a unit of NCNB Corp., Charlotte, N.C., have increased $2 billion since last year after heavy advertising stressing commitment to Texas.
And deposits at NCNB Texas National Bank, a unit of NCNB Corp., Charlotte, N.C., have increased $2 billion since last year.heavy advertising stressing commitment to Texas.
Texans drive Chevy.they want a truck that is "Texas tough.
According to several ad-agency sources, newcomers to the Texas banking market are spending a combined $50 million this year to woo Texans.surviving Texas banking institutions are busily pitching themselves as the only lenders who truly care about the state.
According to several ad-agency sources, newcomers to the Texas banking market are spending a combined $50 million this year to woo Texans.surviving Texas banking institutions are busily pitching themselves as the only lenders who truly care about the state.
The most-strident anti-outsider sentiment among bankers comes from the Independent Bankers Association of Texas.it's hard to tell from previews of the $5 million "The I's of Texas" TV campaign.
although it's hard to tell from previews of the $5 million "The I's of Texas" TV campaign.in introductory material for the campaign, the trade group urges members to "arm" for a "revolution" against big, out-of-state bank-holding companies.
Texans can sniff a phony a mile away.don't come and try to con us with a howdy y'all or a cowboy hat.
The ad is part of Classic Coke's 1990 ad campaign, with the tag line, "Can't beat the Real Thing.Basketball star Michael Jordan and singer Randy Travis have agreed to appear in ads.
earnings are expected to be 25 cents to 35 cents a share, down from previous estimates of 50 cents to 60 cents.it expects revenue to meet or exceed previous projections of $385 million for the year ending Jan. 28, 1990.
Some delays have been caused by a shortage of micoprocessors -- notably Intel Corp. 's newest chip, the 486.others apparently have been caused by Dell's explosive growth and thinly stretched resources.
They've got a lot of different balls in the air at the same time," observes Jim Poyner, a computer securities analyst with Dallas-based William K. Woodruff & Co.Mr. Dell concedes the company was "definitely too optimistic" in its expectations.
They've got a lot of different balls in the air at the same time," observes Jim Poyner, a computer securities analyst with Dallas-based William K. Woodruff & Co.Mr. Dell concedes the company was "definitely too optimistic" in its expectations.
Mr. Dell attributed the earnings slide to new product delays, such as a laptop scheduled for September that won't be introduced until early November.Product delays have left Dell buffeted by harsher competition in its bread-and-butter line of desktop computers.
Product delays, however, have left Dell buffeted by harsher competition in its bread-and-butter line of desktop computers.powerhouse competitors Compaq Computer Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. price their PCs more aggressively.
to place increased emphasis on product quality, "in an effort to rise above some of that price pressure.that has been the key to Compaq's success whereas Dell carved out its market niche as a direct seller of low-cost but reliable computers.
But that has been the key to Compaq's success.Dell carved out its market niche as a direct seller of low-cost but reliable computers.
whereas Dell carved out its market niche as a direct seller of low-cost but reliable computers.it might be too late in the game for a shift in strategy.
it agreed to buy well-servicing assets of two companies and expects to report higher third-quarter revenue and earnings.it signed letters of intent for the cash and stock purchases of a total of 29 well-servicing rigs from two concerns located in New Mexico and California.
third-quarter net income edged up.growth in its oil-field services sector offset a decline in interest income.
The lower interest income occurred.Schlumberger spent $1.2 billion buying back its stock last year.
Revenue declined 6.3% to $1.11 billion from $1.18 billion.excluding businesses acquired or sold, revenue was flat at about $1.24 billion.
The group hasn't forecast full-year earnings for 1989.that its first-half results aren't a good indication because of one-time elements and the seasonal nature of its operations.
Few specialists said they expect the quake to have much of an effect on most California property values.real-estate experts and brokers said the quake undoubtedly will drag down prices in neighborhoods built on less stable ground, especially in the Bay Area.
Neither she nor other real-estate executives and brokers could project how much less Marina properties might bring.she said the two-tier price structure would affect prices "for a while.
a widespread corporate flight in the quake's aftermath.the quake will force some companies to relocate or expand part or all of their operations outside the state.
Because of the quake threat, "some firms have evaluated what the cost is to shore up their buildings and compared it with the cost of building it elswehere.One Southern California aerospace firm two months ago asked Location Management to compare the costs of reinforcing its current building against earthquakes with the cost of building a new structure elsewhere.
that its banks have denied the company's request to pay it.it has the cash to cover the 25-cent-a-share dividend.
that its banks have denied the company's request to pay it.the trust hasn't met certain terms.
it has "numerous financing activities" under way to remedy the problem.and will make up the dividend payment.
and will make up the dividend payment later.possible.
Under terms of the transaction, which was proposed in June, Doman said it acquired International Forest Products Ltd. 's 22% stake in Western Forest.Western Forest, in a related transaction, bought back a 22% interest in the company from Fletcher Challenge Canada Ltd.
and Western Forest, in a related transaction, bought back a 22% interest in the company from Fletcher Challenge Canada Ltd.The Fletcher Challenge Canada stake was canceled.
raising Doman's interest in Western Forest to 56%.it was granted an option to acquire the remaining 44% interest in Western Forest.
The extension of federal regulatory authority over telephone utilities in the Atlantic provinces hasn't required special legislation.they are investor-owned.
it will pay all omitted dividends when debt-reduction requirements have been met.the preferred stock is cumulative.
it will pay all omitted dividends.debt-reduction requirements have been met.
The company's new management wanted to extend the loan.it tries to sell two units.
Three savings-and-loan institutions in Kansas and Texas were added to the Resolution Trust Corp. 's conservatorship program.federal regulators declared the thrifts insolvent and named the RTC their receiver.
The three insolvent thrifts will maintain normal business hours and operations under RTC-appointed managing agents.the RTC tries to negotiate permanent resolutions.
Three savings-and-loan institutions in Kansas and Texas were added to the Resolution Trust Corp. 's conservatorship program after federal regulators declared the thrifts insolvent and named the RTC their receiver.Century Bank, Phoenix, Ariz., was closed by Arizona banking officials.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved the assumption of Century's deposits and fully secured liabilities by a newly chartered subsidiary of Valley Capital Corp., Las Vegas.The new institution is called Century Bank.
The new institution is also called Century Bank.the failed bank's five offices will reopen today.
The newly chartered bank will assume about $125.7 million in 10,300 deposit accounts and pay the FDIC a purchase premium of $2.9 million.It will buy about $91.7 million of assets.
It also will buy about $91.7 million of assets.the FDIC will advance $31.8 million to the assuming bank.
The announcement came.Societe Commerciale, a trading company with activities in more than 40 countries, reported a loss of 320.5 million francs ($51 million) for the first six months of this year, partly because of provisions on future losses.
IBM and MCA formed Discovision in 1979 to make laser-read optical products.the partners didn't believe the market for the systems was developing as rapidly as they had hoped.
Discovision ceased manufacturing operations in 1982 and sold many of its assets to Tokyo-based Pioneer, among others.reportedly investing $100 million in the business.
Discovision now has world-wide license agreements with major manufacturers covering CD audio disks, audio disk players, videodisks and videodisk players.It licenses optically based data storage and retrieval devices.
that IBM and MCA hadn't planned to sell the joint venture, which is now profitable.that Pioneer approached Discovision earlier this year.
whether Discovision's current management will remain.Pioneer buys the company.
Tokyo stocks closed higher in moderately active but directionless trading.the recent anxiety in world stock markets continued to fade.
Tokyo stocks closed higher in moderately active but directionless trading.London shares closed firmer in thin trading.
London shares also closed firmer in thin trading driven largely by technical factors and support from a new Wall Street rally.Prices rose on almost every other major exchange in Europe, Asia and the Pacific.
The morning session was dominated by individuals and dealers.some institutions participated in the afternoon, encouraged by the market's firmness.
that participants realized that the Tokyo and New York markets have different economic fundamentals.looking at the reasons for Friday's Wall Street plunge.
that the Tokyo market will remain firm with a moderately upward trend for the rest of the year.New York stocks just fluctuate in or near their current range.
that if New York stocks just fluctuate in or near their current range, the Tokyo market will remain firm with a moderately upward trend for the rest of the year.the market lacks a base on which to set long-term buying strategy, as the future direction of U.S. interest rates remains unclear.
the market lacks a base on which to set long-term buying strategy.the future direction of U.S. interest rates remains unclear.
Investor interest switches back and forth ceaselessly.they are unable to shift their weight to one side for sure.
Many of Wednesday's winners were losers yesterday.investors quickly took profits and rotated their buying to other issues.
Many of Wednesday's winners were losers yesterday.investors quickly took profits and rotated their buying to other issues.
Fujisawa Pharmaceutical gained 130 to 1,930 yen ($13.64) a share, Mochida Pharmaceutical was up 150 at 4,170.Eisai advanced 60 to 2,360.
Daiwa House advanced 100 to 2,610, Misawa Homes was up 60 at 2,940.Sekisui House gained 100 to 2,490.
Housing issues were boosted by a report that Daiwa House expects to post 43% higher earnings for its latest fiscal year.Leading construction companies attracted interest for their strong earnings outlooks.
Ohbayashi was up 60 to close at 1,680, Shimizu gained 50 to 2,120.Kumagai-Gumi advanced 40 to 1,490.
Steel shares fell back.advancing for three days.
Kawasaki Steel was down 11 at 788, Kobe Steel lost 5 to 723.Nippon Steel slipped 6 to 729.
Mitsubishi Rayon, a leading advancer Wednesday, fell 44 to 861.investors grabbed profits.
Mitsubishi Rayon, a leading advancer Wednesday, fell 44 to 861.investors grabbed profits.
the market was underpinned by a squeeze in FT-SE 100 stocks, particularly among market-makers seeking shares that had been hit hard in recent weeks, such as retailers and building-related concerns.despite the flurry of interest in those shares the market remains nervous about Wall Street's volatility and high U.K. interest rates.
Insurers recovered ground again on market-maker demand and speculative buying linked to talk of mergers in the industry.the European Community's planned market unification in.
Sun Alliance fell 1 to close at 289.General Accident jumped 10 to #10.13.
B.A.T Industries surged in afternoon dealings.its shareholders approved a plan to dispose of its U.S. and U.K. retailing operations to fend off Hoylake Investment's #13.4 billion ($21.33 billion) hostile bid.
after its shareholders approved a plan to dispose of its U.S. and U.K. retailing operations to fend off Hoylake Investment's #13.4 billion ($21.33 billion) hostile bid.With the company exercising a plan to buy back as many as 10% of its shares outstanding.
In other European markets, shares closed sharply higher in Stockholm, Frankfurt, Zurich and Paris and higher in Milan, Amsterdam and Brussels.Prices closed higher in Singapore, Sydney, Taipei, Wellington, Hong Kong and Manila but were lower in Seoul.
Mr. Agnos declined the invitations, the White House said.Marlin Fitzwater, White House press secretary asserted that Mr. Agnos had failed to return telephone calls from John Sununu, White House chief of staff.
that Mr. Agnos, along with the mayors of Oakland and Alameda, are to accompany President Bush on a tour of the earthquake area today.that Mr. Agnos had been "very helpful" in making arrangements for Mr. Bush's hastily scheduled trip to California.
Gold and silver broker Preston Semel asked a federal court to halt the Commodity Exchange from imposing a record $550,000 fine on his firm.The suit asks that the Comex's nine-month suspension of Mr. Semel be lifted, pending the broker's appeal of the disciplinary measures.
that the broker and his firm "will be irreparably injured and their business will be totally and permanently destroyed.the sanctions are halted pending an appeal.
that the broker and his firm "will be irreparably injured.their business will be totally and permanently destroyed.
Already the firm has paid $211,666 of the fine.it will have to liquidate additional assets in order to pay the rest.
it would have no comment on Mr. Gintel's plans.further information has been disclosed by him.
Xtra, a transportation leasing company, said in a statement it would have no comment on Mr. Gintel's plans until "further information has been disclosed by him.The company said its 1990 annual meeting has not been scheduled.
STOCKS AND BONDS SURGED on the second anniversary of Black Monday.a favorable inflation report prompted speculation of lower interest rates.
The Dow Jones industrials closed up 39.55, at 2683.20.rising over 60 points in mid-afternoon.
The dollar finished mixed.gold declined.
The dollar finished mixed.gold declined.
Energy prices continued to fall at the retail level.economists worried about a big rise in wholesale energy costs.
to pass a capital-gains cut in the Senate.Other tax breaks are likely to be restored or created in the coming months.
to be restored or created in the coming months.special interest groups try to undo the 1986 tax overhaul.
to be restored or created in the coming months.special interest groups try to undo the 1986 tax overhaul.
that a price war could erupt this Christmas.cash-strapped firms such as Campeau slash prices to spur sales.
AT&T unveiled a sweetened early retirement plan for management that the company hopes will save it $450 million in the next year.profit rose 19% in the third quarter.
Bell Atlantic posted a strong earnings gain for the third quarter, as did Southern New England Telecommunications.Nynex, Pacific Telesis and U S West had lower profits.
NASA awarded the contract to CSC in November.an appeal by Sterling Software Inc. of Dallas sent the contract to the General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals and the board required NASA to re-evaluate bidders' proposals.
but an appeal by Sterling Software Inc. of Dallas sent the contract to the General Services Administration Board of Contract Appeals.the board required NASA to re-evaluate bidders' proposals.
three strong aftershocks, one measuring 5.0 on the Richter scale, jolted the region.power and commuters returned to much of downtown San Francisco for the first time since Tuesday's temblor in the Bay area.
As power and commuters returned to much of downtown San Francisco for the first time since Tuesday's temblor in the Bay area, three strong aftershocks, one measuring 5.0 on the Richter scale, jolted the region.Californians tried to cope with still-limited services, blocked roadways and water shortages in the aftermath of the tremor that left scores dead and injured.
As power and commuters returned to much of downtown San Francisco for the first time since Tuesday's temblor in the Bay area, three strong aftershocks, one measuring 5.0 on the Richter scale, jolted the region.Californians tried to cope with still-limited services, blocked roadways and water shortages in the aftermath of the tremor that left scores dead and injured.
Bush is to visit the area today.officials in Washington estimated that emergency assistance would total at least $2.5 billion.
the 51-48 vote was well short of the two-thirds needed to approve changes in the Constitution.the proposal won a slight majority.
The reversal came.the government conceded that investigators may have faked evidence.
a pro-democracy protest erupted in the Baltic city of Greifswald, and activists threatened further rallies against leader Krenz's expected hard-line policies.they conferred near East Berlin.
As they conferred near East Berlin, a pro-democracy protest erupted in the Baltic city of Greifswald.activists threatened further rallies against leader Krenz's expected hard-line policies.
detaining Czechoslovakia's former foreign minister, Jiri Hajak, and 14 other activists.A leading U.S. human-rights monitor was briefly held.
The Galileo spacecraft sped unerringly toward the planet Jupiter.five astronauts aboard the space shuttle Atlantis measured the Earth's ozone layer.
Argentina and Britain agreed to resume diplomatic and economic relations.the two nations battled over the Falkland Islands.
Rebel artillerists bombarded the capital of Afghanistan, killing at least 12 people.the Soviet Union was reported to be airlifting arms and food to Kabul's forces.
Rebel artillerists bombarded the capital of Afghanistan, killing at least 12 people, as the Soviet Union was reported to be airlifting arms and food to Kabul's forces.Fighting was reported around the strategic town of Khost, near the Pakistani border.
The talks came.Lebanese negotiations on political changes appeared deadlocked.
the dollar rebounded later in the trading day.slipping on news of a smaller-than-expected U.S. inflation figure.
The September index fueled speculation, damaging to the dollar, that the Federal Reserve soon will ease monetary policy further.foreign-exchange dealers said the dollar staged a quick comeback, prompted by a round of short covering and some fresh buying interest later in the trading day.
that it could signal further easing by Fed.the consumer price index, known as the CPI, is a more comprehensive measure of inflation and is rising less rapidly than the producer-price index, or PPI.
They noted that because the consumer price index, known as the CPI, is a more comprehensive measure of inflation and is rising less rapidly than the producer-price index, or PPI, it could signal further easing by Fed.Others suggested that the Fed will hold any changes in monetary policy in check, leaving fed funds at around 8 3/4%, down from the 9% level that prevailed from July through September.
that both PPI and CPI climbed around 4 1/2% year-to-year in September.that both CPI and PPI have decelerated since spring.
In all, the Los Angeles-based trust plans to sell its interests in 36 hotels.the corporation will sell its management interests in 32 of those properties.
the trust and corporation will consider a number of options including a stock repurchase, payment of special dividend or investment in more gaming properties.completing the sale and paying debts.
it formally received the final financing needed for a $3 billion bid for about 86% of the hospital operator's stock.the $3 billion bid includes $1 billion of debt that will be assumed by IMA, $600 million of high-yield junk bonds that will be sold by First Boston Corp. and $285 million of equity.
but wouldn't identify them.they make firm offers.
Some money managers are disenchanted with H&R Block.they suspect the company's glory days are past, or at least passing.
Block's tax-preparation business is mature.some of its diversifications are facing tough competition.
The company has consistently earned more than a 20% annual return on its net worth.many companies would be happy with 15%.
The company has consistently earned more than a 20% annual return on its net worth while many companies would be happy with 15%.the tax-preparation business simply has no more room to grow.
You go to any medium-sized town in the U.S.you're going to see H&R Block tax services.
You go to any medium-sized town in the U.S.you're going to see H&R Block tax services.
That was.the 1986 tax "reform" made taxes more complex than ever.
Mr. Cremonie's firm once held about 4.8% of H&R Block.Capital Supervisors sold the last of its H&R Block holdings earlier this year.
Last week the stock hit an all-time high of 37 1/4.getting roughed up in the Friday-the-13th minicrash.
it would be worth well over $5 million today.you invested $10,000 in the initial public offering in 1962.
None dare say to sell it.some money managers are doing just that.
we thought the growth rate was going to accelerate" because of computerized tax filing and instant refunds.we bought it.
When we bought it, we thought the growth rate was going to accelerate" because of computerized tax filing and instant refunds.neither of those developments did much to juice up growth.
That's "not bad.it sure doesn't justify Block shares being priced at 15 to 16 times estimated earnings for fiscal 1990.
The stock was going no place.the earnings were so-so.
The CompuServe subsidiary is "where the growth is.its format is "still too complicated.
I would disagree" that the tax business is mature.the company is planning to go nationwide with a new service, tested in parts of the country, aimed at taxpayers who want refunds in a hurry.
We're still interested {in diversifying}.we'd rather be prudent than make a mistake.
We're still interested {in diversifying}," he says, "but we'd rather be prudent than make a mistake.He says CompuServe's earnings continue to grow "20% to 30% a year" in spite of tough competition from giants like Sears and IBM.
CompuServe's earnings continue to grow "20% to 30% a year" in spite of tough competition from giants like Sears and IBM.Block's other businesses are growing, although less consistently.
The Chicago Board of Trade, the No. 1 U. S. grain market, had long chafed under the attention won by its innovative archrival, the livestock-dealing Mercantile Exchange.the men who ran the grain pits listened when Joseph Sullivan, a 35-year-old former Wall Street Journal newsman, offered them the idea of all-options trading.
So the men who ran the grain pits listened.Joseph Sullivan, a 35-year-old former Wall Street Journal newsman, offered them the idea of all-options trading.
By the end of 1973, the number of "underlying" Big Board stocks had been increased to 50.the options exchange had run up volume of 1.1 million contracts.
that consideration of the owners' financial condition is pointless.Seabrook will be allowed to charge rates sufficient to run the plant and make payments on past construction costs.
to continue to operate.protected from creditors' lawsuits.
Bristol-Myers Co. and Squibb Corp., Princeton, N.J., merged Oct. 4.the new company reported third-period earnings for both companies.
Glass sales to Canadian and European auto makers and sales of replacement auto glass in all markets increased.The coating segment posted higher sales particularly in North America and Europe.
Glass sales to Canadian and European auto makers and sales of replacement auto glass in all markets increased..The coating segment also posted higher sales particularly in North America and Europe.sale increases were offset by slumping sales in flat glass and fiberglass reinforcements.
But sale increases were offset by slumping sales in flat glass and fiberglass reinforcements.chemicals sales were slightly down because of lower prices for vinyl chloride monomer and other chlorine derivatives.
Jefferies Group Inc. said third-quarter net income fell 4%, to $2.2 million, or 35 cents a share, from $2.3 million, or 31 cents a share on more shares, a year earlier.Jefferies, a Los Angeles holding company primarily engaged in securities trading said stock market declines since the quarter ended Sept. 30 created an unrealized pretax loss of about $6 million in its risk arbitrage account.
the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust act for the $3.4 billion bid for Columbia.the $200 million offer for Guber-Peters expired Monday.
but is in a legal battle with Warner Communications Inc. over the services of producers Peter Guber and Jon Peters.two more suits have been filed opposing the company's agreement to buy Columbia.
the question of Taiwan's membership in the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade should be considered.China's own membership in the 97-nation organization is restored.
The Nationalists withdrew in 1950, after their flight to Taiwan.the Communist government in Beijing applied for restoration of China's membership in July 1986.
An appeals-court panel slashed all but $40,000 from the award, the largest ever set by a British jury, pending a reassessment of the damages.the panel dismissed the magazine's contention that it hadn't libeled Mrs. Sutcliffe when it accused her of trying to sell her story to capitalize on the notoriety of her husband.
that it hadn't libeled Mrs. Sutcliffe.it accused her of trying to sell her story to capitalize on the notoriety of her husband.
Private Eye had been threatened with closure.it couldn't afford the libel payment.
the partners plan to rent to tourists.but will sell to interested parties.
Senshukai has a 60% stake in the venture.Nissho Iwai has the rest.
its economic growth will fall sharply.it cuts back on the use of oil, coal and gas to cap emissions of carbon dioxide.
that Japan's annual economic growth rate would eventually be only 0.8%.carbon-dioxide emissions remained at this year's level of 300 million tons.
Japan's carbon-dioxide emissions would slightly more than double by 2010.the nation reduced its dependence on fossil fuels.
that expanding nuclear-power capability is the quickest way to lessen that dependence.increased reliance on nuclear power would meet stiff opposition from environmentalists.
About 5,500 hourly workers will be laid off for a week beginning Oct. 23.overtime has been eliminated at the plant for the fourth quarter.
Sales of Cherokee, the best-selling Jeep, and the lower-volume Wagoneer were actually up about 10% through the end of last month.that's less than Chrysler officials had hoped when they set ambitious production schedules for the Toledo plant earlier this year.
than Chrysler officials had hoped.they set ambitious production schedules for the Toledo plant earlier this year.
Chrysler officials "resisted" cutting output because Cherokee and Wagoneer are "very profitable vehicles.it became clear this spring that demand wasn't coming up to expectations.
Chrysler officials "resisted" cutting output because Cherokee and Wagoneer are "very profitable vehicles.it became clear this spring that demand wasn't coming up to expectations.
Chrysler officials "resisted" cutting output.Cherokee and Wagoneer are "very profitable vehicles.
cutting output.Chrysler officials in late May slapped $1,000 cash rebates on the vehicles, including the first such incentives on the popular four-door Cherokee since Chrysler bought Jeep in 1987.
The incentives boosted sales for a while.the pace had cooled by last month.
you have to close plants.people aren't buying.
Slowing sales of its profitable Jeep Cherokee and Wagoneer sport utility vehicles are forcing Chrysler Corp. to temporarily idle its Toledo, Ohio, assembly plant for the first time since April 1986.Chrysler said it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models.
the plant is scheduled to resume production on Nov. 20.3,300 hourly workers will be affected.
Separately, Chrysler said it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models.General Motors Corp. said it will idle for yet another week its Linden, N.J., assembly plant, bringing to three weeks the total time that plant will be idled during October.
Separately, Chrysler said it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models.General Motors Corp. said it will idle for yet another week its Linden, N.J., assembly plant, bringing to three weeks the total time that plant will be idled during October.
The Corsica and Beretta make up the highest-volume car line at Chevrolet.sales of the cars are off 9.6% for the year, and fell a steep 34.2% early this month.
Chrysler Corp. to temporarily idle its Toledo, Ohio, assembly plant for the first time since April 1986 it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models it will idle for yet another week its Linden, N.J., assembly plant it will shut down for one week its Kentucky Truck Plant because of a "shortage of dealer orders.the nine major U.S. auto makers plan to build 143,178 cars this week, down 11.7% from 162,190 a year ago and flat with last week's 142,117 car output.
Chrysler Corp. to temporarily idle its Toledo, Ohio, assembly plant for the first time since April 1986 it will idle for four weeks the St. Louis assembly plant that builds the Chrysler LeBaron and Dodge Daytona models it will idle for yet another week its Linden, N.J., assembly plant it will shut down for one week its Kentucky Truck Plant because of a "shortage of dealer orders.the nine major U.S. auto makers plan to build 143,178 cars this week, down 11.7% from 162,190 a year ago and flat with last week's 142,117 car output.
Loral Corp. said fiscal second-quarter net income was $19.8 million, or 79 cents a share, compared with year-earlier earnings from continuing operations of $15.6 million, or 62 cents a share.Loral reported that its bookings more than doubled to $654 million in the quarter, ended Sept. 30, from $257 million, in the year-before period.
that the group will call the $120 million that HealthVest has outstanding under the credit line.$3.3 million owed to the bank group isn't paid by today.
HealthVest, an Austin, Texas, real estate investment trust, said that Chemical Bank, the lead bank under its domestic bank agreement, told it that if $3.3 million owed to the bank group isn't paid by today, the group will call the $120 million that HealthVest has outstanding under the credit line.The bank group said that it won't make additional advances under the $150 million credit line.
HealthVest, an Austin, Texas, real estate investment trust, said that Chemical Bank, the lead bank under its domestic bank agreement, told it that if $3.3 million owed to the bank group isn't paid by today, the group will call the $120 million that HealthVest has outstanding under the credit line.HealthVest said Bank of Tokyo Trust Co. also has notified it of a default and said it might take action to cure the default.
that Chemical Bank, the lead bank under its domestic bank agreement, told it that if $3.3 million owed to the bank group isn't paid by today, the group will call the $120 million that HealthVest has outstanding under the credit line.Bank of Tokyo Trust Co has notified it of a default and said it might take action to cure the default.
Bank of Tokyo Trust Co. also has notified it of a default and said it might take action to cure the default.the Tokyo bank indicated that it won't accelerate HealthVest's $50 million loan.
HealthVest is in a severe liquidity bind.its affiliate, Healthcare International Inc., has failed to make about $10.6 million in principal and interest payments owed since August.
To be economically feasible, the 11 billion Canadian dollar (US$9.37 billion) project requires almost a doubling of natural gas export prices.It faces numerous other hurdles including an agreement on a pipeline route for the gas.
The board estimated that the cost of building a pipeline from the Mackenzie delta to Alberta would be about C$5.9 million.It said projections of surging U.S. demand for natural gas and price forecasts of C$5.25 per thousand cubic feet by 2005 would make the project economically viable.
Esso, a unit of Imperial Oil Ltd. which is 71%-owned by Exxon Corp., will be allowed to export 5.1 trillion cubic feet to the U.S. in the 20-year period..Shell, a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, will be allowed to export 0.9 trillion cubic feet.Gulf, a unit of Olympia & York Developments Ltd. will be allowed to export 3.2 trillion cubic feet.
to sell its minority investments in makers of steam-generating and related equipment, Stein Industrie and Energie & Verfahrenstechnik, to the major shareholder in the companies, Dutch-based GEC Alsthom N.V.Combustion Engineering sold Illinois Minerals Co., based in Cairo, Ill.
Assets of Construction Equipment International, Houston, were sold to Essex Crane Inc.the assets of Elgin Electronics, Erie, Pa., were sold to closely held Charter Technologies Inc.
It depends on when you look.In 1900 less than 8% of assets went into bank deposits..That rose to nearly 18% during the Depression, and hasn't changed much since.
That rose to nearly 18% during the Depression, and hasn't changed much since.Pension reserves made up a relatively small part of household assets until the last decade, when they skyrocketed.
In 1900, for instance, less than 8% of assets went into bank deposits..That rose to nearly 18% during the Depression, and hasn't changed much since..Pension reserves, on the other hand, made up a relatively small part of household assets until the last decade, when they skyrocketed.there has been a drastic decline in the importance of unincorporated business assets -- thanks to industry consolidation and a decline in family farms.
Some results are self-explanatory.other figures are surprising.
But other figures are surprising.Housing has remained a fairly steady component of household assets over the past decade -- although common wisdom would have expected an increase.
Housing, for instance, has remained a fairly steady component of household assets over the past decade.common wisdom would have expected an increase.
There is a lot of attention paid to housing as a form of household wealth.it hasn't increased much relative to other assets.
It suggests that households accumulate wealth across a broad spectrum of assets.housing though it appears in the popular mind as being the major {growing} household asset, isn't.
And housing isn't.it appears in the popular mind as being the major {growing} household asset.
Housing, for instance, has remained a fairly steady component of household assets over the past decade.investors' desire to hold stocks -- directly and through mutual funds -- has held surprisingly steady.
it sent a letter to LIN Broadcasting Corp. clarifying its revised tender offer for LIN and asking LIN to conduct "a fair auction.LIN said that it wouldn't take a position on McCaw's revised tender offer.
LIN would have a priority right to pursue all opportunities to acquire U.S. cellular interests in markets other than those in which McCaw holds an interest, or which are contiguous to those markets.LIN has an interest there or contiguous to it.
Independent directors would have veto rights to any acquisition.they unanimously decide it isn't in LIN's best interest.
McCaw won't submit a bid unless the independent directors request it, and the independent directors will run the bidding.LIN is put up for sale rather than purchased by McCaw in five years.
McCaw won't submit a bid.the independent directors request it, and the independent directors will run the bidding.
unless the independent directors request it.the independent directors will run the bidding.
the success of several movies released during the quarter, including "Parenthood" and "Uncle Buck," contributed to record revenue for its film unit.Both MCA's music-entertainment and book-publishing units posted record revenue and operating profit.
The parent company's net included a loss that was related to the company's 50% stake in Cineplex Odeon Corp.net included certain reserves related to the restructuring of its LJN Toys' international operations.
I lose far less interest.By proceeding that way.it all evens out.
The effete Tyrannosaurus Rex.Had strict Cretaceous views on sex.that is why you only see him.Reproduced in the museum.
The effete Tyrannosaurus Rex.Had strict Cretaceous views on sex.that is why you only see him.Reproduced in the museum.
Helmsley's insurance division had slightly exceeded that percentage.the division wasn't considered significant enough to the company to be restructured, particularly at a difficult time for the firm.
Adverse publicity from the scandal surrounding its founder's wife and related management strife have put pressure on the entire Helmsley organization.individuals close to the company insist shuttering the insurance division, a sideline from the company's core property management business, isn't the beginning of a sale of assets.
Outside the white-walled headquarters of the socalled Society of Orange Workers, all seems normal in South Africa's abnormal society.inside the white walls of the Orange Workers' office -- just about the largest building in town, save for the Dutch Reformed Church and the school -- South Africa's neat racial order is awry.
White women serve tea and coffee.and wash the cups and saucers afterwards.
White women serve tea and coffee.and then wash the cups and saucers.
we want to have our own nation.we must be willing to do all the work ourselves.
If we want to have our own nation, then we must be willing to do all the work ourselves.They do want their own nation.
The pillars of apartheid may be trembling in the rest of South Africa, with Johannesburg opening its public facilities to all races, blacks storming the all-white beaches of the Cape and the government releasing seven leaders of the banned African National Congress.here in Morgenzon, a sleepy town amid the corn fields of the eastern Transvaal, the Orange Workers are holding the pillars steady.
The Orange Workers believe that the solution to South Africa's racial problems isn't the abolition of apartheid, it's the perfection of apartheid -- complete and total separation of the races.Here is where the Orange Workers have come to make apartheid's last stand.
This may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in Africa.the fact that there are only 3,000 card-carrying Orange Workers may put them on the loony fringe.
This may seem to be a preposterous and utterly futile effort in Africa..And the fact that there are only 3,000 card-carrying Orange Workers may put them on the loony fringe.their ideal of an Afrikaner homeland, an all-white reserve to be carved out of present-day South Africa, is a mainstream desire of the right-wing, which embraces about one-third of the country's five million whites.
The Orange Workers are just putting this preaching into practice.farmer Johan Fischer, his T-shirt and jeans covered in grease, crawls around under his planter, tightening bolts and fixing dents.
Over at the fiberglass factory, four white workers assemble water tanks on their own.in their spare time they build townhouses across the road.
On Main Street, Alida Verwoerd and her daughters look after the clothes and fabric shop.hurry home to fix lunch for the rest of the family.
whites should also build it by themselves.whites want to play there by themselves.
to play there by themselves.whites should build it by themselves.
we have to change our way of life.we want to survive as a people.
apartheid means you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it, but you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration.these are two contradictions that can't go on forever.
you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it.you also want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration.
you want cheap black labor and all the comforts that go with it.but you want to exclude the blacks from social and political integration.
People took separate development as an opportunity to use black labor without ever getting rid of it.my father meant it to mean real separation.
According to Mr. Verwoerd, the early Afrikaner pioneers were the first people to settle in the eastern Transvaal, even before the blacks.when Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908, the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town.
Then the farmer who owned the land stipulated that only whites could reside in town.Morgenzon was incorporated in 1908.
blacks could work there.they had to leave at night.
Weeds push up through the cracks in the sidewalks.many houses and storefronts are empty.
So far, about 150 Orange Workers have moved here, spending nearly $1 million buying up property over the past three years.complete and total segregation remains elusive.
We need them.I thank God for them.
that Morgenzon will boom.the Afrikaners finally realize there is no turning back the integration of South African society and politics.
not to wait.they have to fight for their own nation.
The ANC won't be stopped.there is a provision for black aspirations.
The ANC won't be stopped until there is a provision for black aspirations.no government will stop this idea of the Afrikaners.
that's their choice.the rest of South Africa wants to have an integrated melting pot.
We just want to have our own cup of tea.they will even serve it themselves.
Okay, now you can pick up that phone.don't do anything rash.
The market is sending nervous signals.it's "unwise" to be overcommitted to stocks.
The market is sending nervous signals.it's "unwise" to be overcommitted to stocks.
We expect a choppy and sloppy market for a short period.we don't think it will be ugly.
We expect a choppy and sloppy market for a short period, but we don't think it will be ugly..The downside is limited.even those who say some selective selling may be in order stress that individuals need to be in the stock market to achieve their long-term investment objectives and to help balance their other assets.
that aren't doing well now.that don't have good earnings prospects.
that's enough to dump the stock.earnings don't live up to analysts' expectations.
An earnings disappointment may reflect a situation that's short-term.The risk is that earnings disappointments will continue.
The economy is decelerating after six good years.right now it's better to shoot first and ask questions later.
The economy is decelerating after six good years.right now it's better to shoot first and ask questions later.
to shoot first.and ask questions.
companies with high debt ratios will be dumped en masse.we do have an economic slowdown.
Takeover activity will slow down.more and more banks tighten their lending requirements.
Takeover activity will slow down.more and more banks tighten their lending requirements.
Takeover activity will slow down as more and more banks tighten their lending requirements, he says. "There'll be fewer and fewer deals.many financial advisers say individuals should be in the stock market as long-term investors, not as traders trying to catch the next hot stock..In general, they say, avoid takeover stocks.
it's all right to pay 20 times earnings.you think earnings will grow at 20% a year.
If you think earnings will grow at 20% a year, it's all right to pay 20 times earnings.don't pay 30 times earnings for a company that's expected to grow at 15% a year.
but "will be ruthless with stocks.the earnings aren't there.
that knocks out all your growth stocks.you say sell anytime a company's price/earnings ratio exceeds 15.
investors should consider selling.there has been a fundamental change in a company since they bought its stock.
if there has been a fundamental change in a company.they bought its stock.
Say you purchased a stock because of a new product that was in the works..Now, because of various difficulties, the product has been scrapped..Time to sell.suppose you were attracted to a company because of expectations that sales would hit $200 million by 1990..If things haven't worked out that well, and sales won't hit $200 million until 1992, it's time to consider selling.
it's time to consider selling.things haven't worked out that well, and sales won't hit $200 million until 1992.
If things haven't worked out that well.sales won't hit $200 million until 1992.
The union won't respond to the USX statement.Mr. Williams has studied it.
Robert A. Oswald, chief financial officer and a director of this natural-gas pipeline company, was elected to the additional position of executive vice president.Michael W. O'Donnell, executive vice president of a Columbia unit, was named assistant chief financial officer and a senior vice president of the parent company.
BankAmerica Corp. reported a 34% jump in third-quarter earnings.its rocket-like recovery from nearly ruinous losses several years ago continued to be fueled by growth in consumer loans, higher interest margins and negligible loan losses.
BankAmerica Corp. reported a 34% jump in third-quarter earnings.its rocket-like recovery from nearly ruinous losses several years ago continued to be fueled by growth in consumer loans, higher interest margins and negligible loan losses.
All but eight of the 850 branches reopened yesterday for business.Automated teller machine operations were up and operating yesterday.
For the first time in nearly two years, BankAmerica results failed to improve in consecutive quarters.the decline from the second quarter was attributable to special factors.
Excluding tax credits, profit was 6% below the second quarter.that drop was caused entirely by a decline in Brazilian interest paid, to $5 million from $54 million the second quarter.
The company cited higher tax credits in the second quarter, totaling $63 million, compared with $28 million in the third quarter.BankAmerica continued to build its reserve against troubled foreign loans by boosting its loan-loss provision to $170 million, about the same as the previous quarter but well above the $100 million in the year-earlier quarter.
Moreover, BankAmerica continued to build its reserve against troubled foreign loans by boosting its loan-loss provision to $170 million, about the same as the previous quarter but well above the $100 million in the year-earlier quarter..The provision rate was far above BankAmerica's actual net credit losses of $24 million in the third quarter, compared with $18 million in the second period and $38 million a year earlier.its reserve against troubled foreign-country loans, once below 25%, now amounts to 45% of the $6.4 billion of non-trade debt it calculates it is owed by those nations.
Third-quarter profit was 16% below the $304 million, or $1.50 a share, earned in the 1989 second quarter.By any measure, third-quarter earnings were robust, equivalent to a 0.92% return on assets even excluding tax credits.
By that key measure of operating efficiency, BankAmerica turned in a better performance than its well-regarded Los Angeles-based competitor, Security Pacific Corp., which posted a 0.89% return in the third quarter.it continued to badly trail its San Francisco neighbor, Wells Fargo & Co., which reported an extraordinary 1.25% return on assets.
Many plant floors currently resemble a Tower of Babel, with computers, robots and machine tools that generally speak their own language and have trouble talking to each other.if a problem develops on a production line, it is unlikely some supervisor sitting in front of a personal computer or workstation will know about it or be able to correct it.
As a result it is unlikely some supervisor sitting in front of a personal computer or workstation will know about it or be able to correct it.a problem develops on a production line.
Many plant floors currently resemble a Tower of Babel, with computers, robots and machine tools that generally speak their own language and have trouble talking to each other.IBM will be announcing more than 50 products that will be aimed at letting even the dumbest machine tool talk to the smartest mainframe, or anything in between.
that will be aimed at letting even the dumbest machine tool talk to the smartest mainframe, or anything in between.In an unusual display of openness, IBM will be helping customers tie together operations that include lots of equipment made by IBM's competitors.
So IBM will be announcing more than 50 products that will be aimed at letting even the dumbest machine tool talk to the smartest mainframe, or anything in between..In an unusual display of openness, IBM also will be helping customers tie together operations that include lots of equipment made by IBM's competitors.IBM will be offering programming tools designed to let anyone working on a factory floor write ad-hoc software, for instance, to do statistical analysis that would pinpoint a problem on a manufacturing line.
that, as usual with such broad announcements from IBM, this one will be part reality and part strategy.it will take many quarters for IBM to roll out all the products that customers need.
So it will take many quarters for IBM to roll out all the products that customers need.it will take years for customers to integrate the products into their operations.
So it will take many quarters for IBM to roll out all the products that customers need, and it will take years for customers to integrate the products into their operations.as usual, the products will appeal mostly to heavy users of IBM equipment, at least initially.
So it will take many quarters for IBM to roll out all the products that customers need, and it will take years for customers to integrate the products into their operations..Also as usual, the products will appeal mostly to heavy users of IBM equipment, at least initially.consultants and industry executives said the products could help make manufacturing operations more efficient, and provide a boost to the computer-integrated-manufacturing market -- a market that Yankee Group, a research firm, has said may double to $40 billion by 1993.
This is a step in the right direction.that "a lot of this is intentions.
the products could help make manufacturing operations more efficient, and provide a boost to the computer-integrated-manufacturing market -- a market that Yankee Group, a research firm, has said may double to $40 billion by 1993.The announcements should help IBM go on the offensive against Digital Equipment Corp. on the plant floor.
Digital has dominated computerized manufacturing.IBM has traditionally dominated the market for computers on the business side of manufacturing operations and has done well in the market for design tools.
Digital has dominated computerized manufacturing.Hewlett-Packard Co has begun to gain share in the whole computer-integrated-manufacturing arena.
IBM will face an uphill climb against Digital, given Digital's reputation for being better than IBM at hooking together different manufacturers' computers.Hewlett-Packard, while a much smaller player, has made a big commitment to the sorts of industry standards that facilitate those hookups and could give IBM some problems.
In addition, Hewlett-Packard has made a big commitment to the sorts of industry standards that facilitate those hookups and could give IBM some problems.a much smaller player.
the Digital gets 30% of its revenue from the manufacturing market.Hewlett-Packard gets 50%.
That is.many companies will standardize on certain types of equipment as the various parts of the manufacturing market merge, and IBM is the biggest player.
because many companies will standardize on certain types of equipment.the various parts of the manufacturing market merge.
because many companies will standardize on certain types of equipment as the various parts of the manufacturing market merge.IBM is the biggest player.
IBM should be able to take advantage of its loyal following among buyers of equipment.much will depend on how quickly IBM can move.
The whole idea of computer-integrated manufacturing, CIM, seems to be making a comeback.losing a little luster over the past couple of years.
organizational changes may still be required to really take advantage of CIM's capabilities.someone on the shop floor may not like having someone in an office using a personal computer to look over his shoulder and may be able to prevent that from happening.
organizational changes may still be required to really take advantage of CIM's capabilities.a system such as IBM's should help significantly.
a system such as IBM's should help significantly.In making polyethylene sheets out of plastic chips a chip sometimes doesn't melt, gets caught in the machinery and creates a run in the sheets..That can be expensive, because the problem may not be noticed for a while, and the sheets are typically thrown away. But if computers can be integrated into the process, they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred.
That can be expensive.the problem may not be noticed for a while, and the sheets are typically thrown away.
because the problem may not be noticed for a while.the sheets are typically thrown away.
because the problem may not be noticed for a while.that, if computers can be integrated into the process, they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred.
that they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred.computers can be integrated into the process.
that, if computers can be integrated into the process, they could alert an operator.the problem occurred.
that, if computers can be integrated into the process, they could alert an operator as soon as the problem occurred.They could check through the orders on file to find a customer that was willing to accept a lower grade of polyethylene.
The computer would let the machine run.that order was filled.
This sort of improved link figures to eventually become a significant weapon for some companies.Companies might be able to tell salespeople daily about idle equipment, so they could offer discounts on whatever that equipment produces.
to tell salespeople daily, for instance, about idle equipment.they could offer discounts on whatever that equipment produces.
Companies might be able to tell salespeople daily, for instance, about idle equipment.Salespeople could get a precise reading on when products could be delivered -- in much the same way that Federal Express has marketed its ability to tell exactly where a package is in the delivery system.
announced.Henry Ford II declared that the Edsel division and its gawky car would be scrapped.
Merkur's death isn't nearly as costly to Ford as was the Edsel debacle.Merkur was a relatively low-budget project with limited sales goals.
Merkur's death isn't nearly as costly to Ford as was the Edsel debacle, because Merkur was a relatively low-budget project with limited sales goals.Merkur's demise is a setback for Ford at a time when the company's image as the U.S. auto maker with the golden touch is showing signs of strain.
The No. 2 auto maker's new Thunderbird and Mercury Cougar models haven't met sales expectations in the year since they were introduced.Ford's trucks are losing ground to their GM rivals.
Merkur was originally aimed at enticing into Lincoln-Mercury dealerships the kind of young, affluent buyers who wouldn't be caught dead in a Town Car -- a vehicle so bargelike that Ford is staging a press event next month linking the Town Car's launch to the commissioning of a new aircraft carrier in Norfolk, Va.the brand had trouble from the start.
The sporty coupe foundered.American buyers didn't go for the car's unusual double-wing rear spoiler.
they expected the two Merkurs would sell about 15,000 cars a year.in 1988 they reached that goal.
and in 1988 they reached that goal.sales hit 15,261 cars.
and in 1988 they reached that goal, as sales hit 15,261 cars.It was downhill from there.
so did Merkur prices.the West German currency rose.
so did Merkur prices.the West German currency rose.
One major factor was the decline of the dollar against the mark, which began less than a year after Merkur's 1985 launch.The Merkur cars suffered from spotty quality.
The Merkur cars also suffered from spotty quality.by the third quarter of 1988, Scorpios had a high satisfaction rating in internal Ford studies.
But by the third quarter of 1988, Scorpios had a high satisfaction rating in internal Ford studies.Apparently the improvement came too late.
Last fall, Ford announced it would discontinue the XR4Ti in the U.S. at the end of the 1989 model year.Ford said it would keep the Scorpio.
This year, Scorpio sales plummeted.at the current sales pace it would take Ford 242 days to sell off the current Scorpio inventory of about 4,600 cars.
it proposed acquiring the 44% of Soo Line Corp. it doesn't already own for $19.50 a share, or about $81.9 million.failing to find a buyer for its majority stake earlier this year.
Canadian Pacific and Soo Line tracks connect at two points in the West on the Canada-U.S. border.the two companies operate a very successful Chicago-Montreal rail service.
it proposed acquiring the 44% of Soo Line Corp. it doesn't already own for $19.50 a share, or about $81.9 million.for the first nine months, Soo Line reported a loss of $398,000, or four cents a share, compared with net income of $12.5 million, or $1.32 a share, a year earlier.
Golden Nugget Inc. reported a third-quarter net loss of $13.1 million, or 76 cents a share, based on 17.2 million common shares and dilutive equivalents outstanding.the casino operator said its board approved a plan to buy-back as many as three million common shares from time to time, either in the open market or through private transactions.
that he has been considering and discussing a number of possible business ventures.that "nothing is at a mature stage.
he "didn't argue with" the company's decision to seek his resignation.contemplating outside business ventures can distract an executive from performing his best "at the job he is paid to do.
it requested and received the resignation of John A. Franco, its vice chairman, as an officer and a director of the life insurance holding company.Martin H. Ruby, a managing director of Capital Holding's Accumulation and Investment Group resigned to pursue other business interests.
that he had "an amicable parting" with Capital Holding.that he has "a number of ventures in the financial-services area" under consideration.
that his resignation was a mutual decision with Capital Holding management.that he wasn't actually asked to resign.
The Accumulation and Investment Group is responsible for the investment operations of all Capital Holding's insurance businesses and markets guaranteed investment contracts to bank trust departments and other institutions.It sells single-premium annuities to individuals.
PLASTIC PENCILS, CODE-NAMED E-71, made their hush-hush debut in children's pencil boxes at five-and-dime stores in 1973.few knew it then and most still think all pencils are wooden.
But few knew it then.most still think all pencils are wooden.
Eagle Pencil of Shelbyville, Tenn., "Pencil City U.S.A.," had made its earliest pilot plastic pencils in 1971.it wasn't until after it hired Arthur D. Little, a Cambridge, Mass., research concern, that its new product was refined for commercial sale in 1973.
that a snapped wooden pencil will have a slivered break.a plastic model will break cleanly.
It's a trade secret how many were plastic.most writers still don't know what they're using.
H.F. Ahmanson & Co., the nation's largest thrift holding company, posted a 12% earnings decline for the third quarter.another large California savings and loan, Great Western Financial Corp., reported a slight earnings gain.
Third-quarter spreads widened to the highest level in two years.loan portfolio yields rose and money costs declined.
Third-quarter spreads widened to the highest level in two years.loan portfolio yields rose and money costs declined.
as loan portfolio yields rose.money costs declined.
it had a sharp increase in margins in the recent third quarter.a reduction in one-time gains on the sale of various assets and an increase in the company's provision for loan losses held down the earnings gain.
Dun & Bradstreet Corp. posted a 15% rise in third-quarter earnings.revenue declined more than 2%, reflecting in part a continuing drop in sales of credit services in the wake of controversy over the company's sales practices.
the results were as expected.that the earnings masked underlying weaknesses in several businesses.
The quality of earnings wasn't as high as I expected.operating profit was weaker than he had anticipated, but nonoperating earnings of $14.6 million and a lower tax rate helped boost net income.
For example operating profit was weaker than he had anticipated.nonoperating earnings of $14.6 million and a lower tax rate helped boost net income.
those sales have been declining this year in the wake of allegations that the company engaged in unfair sales practices that encouraged customers to overpurchase services.that price competition in its Nielsen Marketing Research, Nielsen Clearing House and Donnelley Marketing businesses restrained revenue growth.
Terms include a royalty arrangement.details weren't disclosed.
such as how to react to discounts offered by competitors.what would be the optimum number of seats to offer at a given price.
it estimated the cost at $21 million to $22 million.the company last considered adding the equipment two years ago.
When the company last considered adding the equipment two years ago, it estimated the cost at $21 million to $22 million.a task force will have to prepare a detailed plan before the company can predict the current cost.
but a task force will have to prepare a detailed plan.the company can predict the current cost.
but a task force will have to prepare a detailed plan before the company can predict the current cost.The time schedule for installing the equipment will be developed by the task force.
Sir Richard Butler, 60-year-old chairman of Agricola (U.K.) Ltd., was named chairman of County NatWest Investment Management Ltd., the investment management subsidiary of County NatWest Ltd., the investment banking arm of this British bank.Sir Richard is a non-executive director at National Westminister Bank and NatWest Investment Bank Ltd.
The quake knocked The Well out for six hours.when it came back up, it teemed with emotional first-hand reports.
but it teemed with emotional first-hand reports.it came back up.
The time is Pacific Daylight Time.the initials or nicknames are those subscribers use to identify themselves.
I was in the avenues, on the third floor of an old building.except for my heart (Beat, BEAT!) I'm OK.
Got back to Bolinas.everything had fallen: broken poster frames with glass on the floor, file cabinets open or dumped onto the floor.
I felt the temblor begin and glanced at the table next to mine, smiled that guilty smile.we both mouthed the words, "Earth-quake!" together.
I felt the temblor begin and glanced at the table next to mine, smiled that guilty smile.we both mouthed the words, "Earth-quake!" together.
This time, it just got stronger.then the building started shaking violently up and down as though it were a child's toy block that was being tossed.
This time, it just got stronger.and the building started shaking violently up and down as though it were a child's toy block that was being tossed.
and then the building started shaking violently up and down.it were a child's toy block that was being tossed.
I was in the Berkeley Main library.it hit.
Only a few books fell in the reading room.the auto paint shop fire sent an evil-looking cloud of black smoke into the air.
This building shook like hell.it kept getting stronger.
The cats are fine.nervous.
I was driving my truck, stopped at a red light at the corner of Shattuck and Alcatraz at the Oakland-Berkeley border.it hit.
It flopped all around, real dramatic.Many hairline cracks in the concrete slabs.
I couldn't decide if I should come home to Marin.my house is on stilts.
There was a horrible smell of gas.I passed the Chevron refinery before crossing the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge.
as I passed the Chevron refinery.crossing the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge.
There was a horrible smell of gas as I passed the Chevron refinery before crossing the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge.I could see the clouds across the bay from the horrible fire in the Marina District of San Francisco.
My back is still in knots.my hands are still shaking.
Building on the corner severely damaged.an old lady and her very old mother are in the guest room.
The quivers move through my house every few minutes at unpredictable intervals.the mouse that's been living in my kitchen has taken refuge under my desk.
I was in Stinson Beach.the quake rolled through town.
At first, we were unfazed.as things got rougher, we ran for the door and spent the next few minutes outside watching the brick sidewalk under our feet oozing up and down, and the flowers waving in an eerie rhythm.
Then we ran for the door.things got rougher.
Everyone looked calm.there was this surreal low level of confusion as the aftershocks continued.
but there was this surreal low level of confusion.the aftershocks continued.
Power is back on.UCSF {medical center} seems to have quieted down for the night.
A friend of mine was in an underground computer center in downtown SF.the quake hit.
Today should be interesting.people realize how hard life is going to be here for a while.
Today should be interesting.people realize how hard life is going to be here for a while.
and noticed some sounds above my head.someone were walking on the roof, or upstairs.
I got home, let the dogs into the house and noticed some sounds above my head, as if someone were walking on the roof, or upstairs.I noticed the car was bouncing up and down as if someone were jumping on it.
the car was bouncing up and down.someone were jumping on it.
Cupboard doors were flying, the trash can in the kitchen walked a few feet, the dogs came running.I scooted them into the dog run and stood in the doorway myself, watching the outside trash cans dance across the concrete.
Cupboard doors were flying, the trash can in the kitchen walked a few feet, the dogs came running.I scooted them into the dog run and stood in the doorway myself, watching the outside trash cans dance across the concrete.
I went and stood out in front of the house.I realized it was over.
shivering.it were 20 below zero.
and stood out in front of the house, waiting and praying for Merrill to come home, shivering as if it were 20 below zero.he got there.
I began to cry.I saw the pictures of 880 and the Bay Bridge.
I was just sitting down to meet with some new therapy clients, a couple.the building started shaking like crazy.
I was just sitting down to meet with some new therapy clients, a couple.the building started shaking like crazy.
It's a flimsy structure, built up on supports.it was really rocking around.
The three of us stopped breathing for a moment.then when it kept on coming we lunged for the doorway.
The three of us stopped breathing for a moment.and when it kept on coming we lunged for the doorway.
and then we lunged for the doorway.it kept on coming.
Judy and I were in our back yard.the lawn started rolling like ocean waves.
We ran into the house to get Mame.the next tremor threw me in the air and bounced me as I tried to get to my feet.
but the next tremor threw me in the air and bounced me.I tried to get to my feet.
We are all fine here.Mame was extremely freaked.
Not one thing in the house is where it is supposed to be.the structure is fine.
I noticed that all the earthworms were emerging from the ground and slithering across the lawn.I was standing on the lawn with Mame.
Next to Chez Panisse a homeless couple, bundled into a blue sleeping bag, sat up, said, "Good morning.then the woman smiled, said, "Isn't it great just to be alive.
Next to Chez Panisse a homeless couple, bundled into a blue sleeping bag, sat up, said, "Good morning.and the woman smiled, said, "Isn't it great just to be alive.
With strong prices in the company's two major areas -- building products as well as pulp and paper -- analysts had expected a roaring quarter.the performance exceeded some estimates of around $1.90 a share.
efforts to protect the spotted owl led to restrictions on logging in the Pacific Northwest, constricting supply and forcing prices up.strikes, both at Georgia-Pacific and other lumber companies cut supplies and raised prices.
that he would urge President Bush to veto the legislation.it passed Congress.
that the letter wasn't signed by Mr. Skinner.that it didn't contain a veto threat.
who supported the bill.they thought the Transportation Department favored it.
We backed this bill.we thought it would help Skinner.
We backed this bill because we thought it would help Skinner.now we're out there dangling in the wind.
that it would be "cleaner, more efficient.he had authority to block buy-outs in advance.
A few weeks ago, Mr. Skinner testified before Congress that it would be "cleaner, more efficient" if he had authority to block buy-outs in advance.he never took an official position on the bill and has steadfastly maintained that he already has enough authority to deal with buy-outs.
and an additional 20 days.needed.
to block an acquisition.he concluded that it would so weaken an airline financially that it would hurt safety or reduce the carrier's ability to compete.
if he concluded that it would so weaken an airline financially that it would hurt safety or reduce the carrier's ability to compete.if it gave control to a foreign interest.
to block an acquisition.or it gave control to a foreign interest.
it is aimed at transactions financed by large amounts of debt.the legislation would apply to any acquisition of a major airline.
It became apparent in hearings that there ought to be regulation of leveraged buy-outs of some sort," Rep. James Oberstar (D., Minn.), chairman of the House Aviation Subcommittee, said during the panel's deliberations. "I don't believe in the airline business you can be totally laissez-faire because of the high degree of public interest" at stake.Mr. Skinner disagreed, calling the legislation "a retreat from the policy of deregulaton of the airline industry.
calling the legislation "a retreat from the policy of deregulaton of the airline industry.In his letter to Committee Chairman Glenn Anderson (D., Calif.), the secretary said the bill "would be at odds with the administration's policies welcoming open foreign investment and market allocation of resources.
Currently, the Transportation Department doesn't have the authority to block a takeover in advance.if the secretary concludes that a transaction has made a carrier unfit to operate, the department may revoke its certificate, grounding the airline.
However the department may revoke its certificate.the secretary concludes that a transaction has made a carrier unfit to operate.
Such authority is more than adequate, say opponents of the legislation.supporters argue that grounding an airline is so drastic that the department would hesitate doing it.
The panel rejected a proposal pushed by AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines, to allow the Transportation secretary to block corporate raiders from waging proxy fights to oust boards that oppose a leveraged buy-out.It voted down proposals to give the secretary much more discretion on whether to block a buy-out and to require the department to consider the impact of a buy-out on workers.
London shares rallied to post strong gains.initial fears evaporated that the California earthquake would depress Wall Street prices.
Tokyo stocks, which rebounded strongly Tuesday, extended their gains yesterday.most other Asian and Pacific markets closed sharply lower.
The mood changed.dealers reappraised the direct impact of the disaster on shares and Wall Street rebounded from early losses.
after dealers reappraised the direct impact of the disaster on shares.Wall Street rebounded from early losses.
the market still hasn't shaken off its nervousness after its bumpy ride of the past several sessions, caused by interest-rate increases last week and Wall Street's 6.9% plunge Friday.technical factors, including modest gains in the value of the pound, helped draw buying back into the market and reverse losses posted a day earlier.
Among composite insurers, General Accident rose 10 pence to #10.03 ($15.80) a share, Guardian Royal climbed 5 to 217 pence, Sun Alliance rose 3 to 290.Royal Insurance jumped 12 to 450.
Life insurers fared similarly, with Legal & General advancing 3 to 344.Prudential fell 2 to 184 1/2.
Pearl Group rose 5 to 628.Sun Life finished unchanged at #10.98.
Most banking issues retreated after a sector downgrade by Warburg Securities.National Westminister showed strength on positive comments from brokerage firms about its long-term prospects.
The recent stock market drop has shaken confidence in the plan.the shares fell initially on questions about whether Mr. Goldsmith's highly leveraged bid will come to fruition.
Merchant banker Morgan Grenfell climbed 14 to 406 on renewed takeover speculation.mentioned in the rumor mill.
Jaguar advanced 19 to 673.traders contemplated a potential battle between General Motors and Ford Motor for control of the U.K. luxury auto maker.
Jaguar advanced 19 to 673.traders contemplated a potential battle between General Motors and Ford Motor for control of the U.K. luxury auto maker.
On Wednesday, shares were pushed up by index-related buying on the part of investment trusts as well as small orders from individuals and corporations.Institutions stepped back to the sidelines as the direction of U.S. interest rates remained unclear.
On Wednesday, shares were pushed up by index-related buying on the part of investment trusts as well as small orders from individuals and corporations.Institutions stepped back to the sidelines as the direction of U.S. interest rates remained unclear.
Institutions, meanwhile, stepped back to the sidelines.the direction of U.S. interest rates remained unclear.
Institutions, meanwhile, stepped back to the sidelines.the direction of U.S. interest rates remained unclear.
the popularity of issues that gained yesterday won't last long.investors will rotate their buying choices over the short term.
these issues need large-volume buying to push up their prices.substantial gains aren't likely unless institutional investors participate.
so substantial gains aren't likely.institutional investors participate.
Kirin Brewery was up 100 at 2,000.Ajinomoto gained 70 to 2,840.
Most of those markets had rebounded the day before from Monday's slide.unlike the Tokyo exchange, they failed to extend the rise to a second session.
that took place.the start of Monday's session.
The industry had shown signs of recovery this summer.the central bank began to relax its clamp on credit, allowing interest rates to drop a bit after pushing them up for a year.
allowing interest rates to drop a bit.pushing them up for a year.
Sales of new homes rose and inventories of houses, which had been climbing, dropped.last month new construction in all types of homes waned, from single-family houses to large apartment complexes.
that mortgage rates have hit a plateau.they began edging down after a peak in March.
In August, rates on 30-year fixed-rate mortgages started creeping up a bit.they inched down again through September.
The number of building permits issued for future construction dropped 2.4% to a 1,296,000 annual rate.rising 3.7% in August.
All the numbers were adjusted for normal seasonal variations in building activity.The housing starts numbers are one of the least precise of the government's economic indicators and are often revised significantly as more information is collected.
and are often revised significantly.more information is collected.
Shearson Lehman Hutton Holdings Inc. posted a sharp third-quarter turnaround from a year earlier.net income would have dropped from the second quarter without a $37 million after-tax gain.
Commission revenue was $522 million, up 49%.industrywide trading activity slowed in September as institutional investors turned cautious and individuals continued to shy away from the market.
But industrywide trading activity slowed in September.institutional investors turned cautious and individuals continued to shy away from the market.
But industrywide trading activity slowed in September.institutional investors turned cautious and individuals continued to shy away from the market.
as institutional investors turned cautious.individuals continued to shy away from the market.
Two major drug companies posted strong third-quarter earnings, in line with profits already reported by industry leaders and analysts' expectations.Pfizer Inc., based in New York, reported flat earnings.
Schering-Plough Corp., based in Madison, N.J., reported a 21% rise in earnings.American Home Products Corp. of New York posted an 11% increase in net.
net income benefited from a "lower effective tax rate," reflecting a reduction of foreign tax rates, and additional operations in Puerto Rico.Net was aided by a gain on the sale of the company's equity interests in South Africa effective Sept. 1.
Sales by the specialty chemicals and materials science segments were flat.sales by the agriculture segment declined 5%.
In the health-care segment, pharmaceutical sales increased 4%.sales of hospital products increased 1%.
These actions didn't affect results.the gain on the sale of the European cosmetics businesses was offset by provisions relating to the Brazil divestiture and drug restructuring.
World-wide consumer product sales declined 12%, primarily because of the European cosmetics sale.Significantly lower sales of `Stay Trim' diet aids were a factor in the drop.
but not haughty.Charlestonians are indomitable.
Colorado National is a unit of Colorado National Bankshares Inc.Central is a unit of First Bank System of Minneapolis.
Sebastian Guzman Cabrera took over the oil workers union, Mexico's most powerful labor organization, only last January.even in that short time Mr. Guzman Cabrera has become as controversial in his own way as his deposed predecessor, Joaquin Hernandez Galicia, known as La Quina.
In recent contract negotiations with Pemex management, Mr. Guzman Cabrera accepted major concessions that greatly curtail the union's role in subcontracting, long a source of millions of dollars in illicit earnings.with the quiet pragmatism of Mr. Guzman Cabrera replacing the prickly populism of La Quina, government technocrats have been given a free hand to open the petrochemical sector to wider private and foreign investment.
the government has siphoned Pemex's coffers to make payments on Mexico's $97 billion foreign debt.world oil prices collapsed in 1982.
the union has drained it from below.the government drains Pemex from above.
I'm the secretary-general.there is one.
Mr. Guzman Cabrera put in more than 40 years at Pemex.being pushed into retirement by La Quina after a dispute two years ago.
union perks had simply gotten out of hand.he also long benefited from the system built by La Quina.
before being pushed into retirement by La Quina after a dispute two years ago.Though he long benefited from the system built by La Quina.
union perks had simply gotten out of hand.in recent contract negotiations, Mr. Guzman Cabrera gave up the union's right to assign 40% of all of Pemex's outside contracts -- an enormous source of kickbacks.
Thus, in recent contract negotiations, Mr. Guzman Cabrera gave up the union's right to assign 40% of all of Pemex's outside contracts -- an enormous source of kickbacks.The union ceded the 2% commission it had received on all Pemex maintenance contracts.
Thus, in recent contract negotiations, Mr. Guzman Cabrera gave up the union's right to assign 40% of all of Pemex's outside contracts -- an enormous source of kickbacks..The union also ceded the 2% commission it had received on all Pemex maintenance contracts.The new contract eliminates the $15 monthly coupon, good only at union-owned grocery stores, that was part of the salary of every worker, from roughneck to chief executive.
About 9,800 technical workers, notably chemists and lawyers, were switched to non-union status.because of its reduced capital budget, Pemex has phased out about 50,000 transitory construction workers, reducing the work force to about 140,000.
Mr. Guzman Cabrera says the union's sacrifices will be offset by a wage and benefit package that amounts to a 22% increase in compensation.Pemex managers are the ones most thrilled by the contract.
Pemex officials wouldn't say how much money the new contract would save the company.one previous government estimate pegged savings at around $500 million a year.
But Pemex managers are the ones most thrilled by the contract.Pemex's customers are pleased with the company's new spirit.
Grupo Desc, a big conglomerate, has long depended on Pemex petrochemicals to produce plastic packing material.when the Pemex plant shut down for an annual overhaul, it would never give notice to its customers.
But it would never give notice to its customers.the Pemex plant shut down for an annual overhaul.
In May, the government unveiled new foreign investment regulations that create special trusts allowing foreigners, long limited to a 40% stake in secondary petrochemical companies, to own up to 100%.the government reclassified several basic petrochemicals as secondary products.
But Pemex managers are the ones most thrilled by the contract Pemex's customers also are pleased with the company's new spirit Taming the union complements previous moves by the government to attract private investment in petrochemicals, which Mexico has been forced to import in large quantities in recent years.Pemex's courtship with private companies, and especially foreign ones, is controversial in a country where oil has been a symbol of national sovereignty since foreign oil holdings were nationalized in 1938.
where oil has been a symbol of national sovereignty.foreign oil holdings were nationalized in 1938.
Mr. Guzman Cabrera and government officials insist that foreigners will be limited to investing in secondary petroleum products.the new union leader makes no apologies for Pemex's more outward-looking attitude.
sooner or later we're going to become victims of our own isolation.we do not integrate into this new world of interdependence.
MORE EXECUTIVES and their spouses are seeking counseling.work and family pressures mount.
MORE EXECUTIVES and their spouses are seeking counseling.work and family pressures mount.
Some employers initiate referrals.work problems threaten a top manager's job.
One East Coast manufacturing executive, faced with a job transfer his wife resented, found that counseling helped them both come to grips with the move.the vice president of a large Midwestern company realized that an abrasive temperament threatened his career when his wife confided that similar behavior at home harmed their marriage.
And the vice president of a large Midwestern company realized that an abrasive temperament threatened his career.his wife confided that similar behavior at home harmed their marriage.
MORE EXECUTIVES and their spouses are seeking counseling as work and family pressures mount.More dual-career couples are getting help, with men increasingly bringing their working wives for joint counseling.
the relationship almost certainly will erode.you don't have time to talk, to have fun and to be sexual.
Two of three Japanese employees submit suggestions to save money, increase efficiency and boost morale.only 8% of American workers do.
Two of three Japanese employees submit suggestions to save money, increase efficiency and boost morale, while only 8% of American workers do.the Japanese make far more suggestions -- 2,472 per 100 eligible employees vs. only 13 per 100 employees in the.
Two of three Japanese employees submit suggestions to save money, increase efficiency and boost morale, while only 8% of American workers do..And the Japanese make far more suggestions -- 2,472 per 100 eligible employees vs. only 13 per 100 employees in the.that Japanese employers adopt four of five suggestions, while their U.S. counterparts accept just one in four.
that Japanese employers adopt four of five suggestions.their U.S. counterparts accept just one in four.
why American employers grant an average award of $604.72 per suggestion.Japan's payment is $3.23.
That helps explain why American employers grant an average award of $604.72 per suggestion, while Japan's payment is $3.23.suggestions' net savings per 100 employees is $274,475 in Japan vs. $24,891 in the U.S.
Control Data, for one, plays down its employee suggestion program.it favors the team-management focus.
inventory shrinkage is going to be affected.it causes management to take their eye off the ball.
Pilferage climbed dramatically.many angry employees "felt abandoned by the former owners.
A separate study of the extent of employee misconduct linked general job satisfaction to property loss.top management should watch for other tell-tale signs of employee misdeeds, like expense-account fudging and phone misuse.
Most important, experts say, is to show that a company's ethical tone is set at the top.Mr. Dalton recommends that the chief executive establish a rumor control center and move swiftly to bolster morale.
Consultant John Keller of Southlake, Texas, urges that top management adopt a "tough hands-on approach" with very tight controls and monitoring.security authority Robert L. Duston favors disciplining all employees who cheat.
Nearly seven of 10 investors think companies reinvest "too little" of their profits in the business.half the employees surveyed think companies dole out too little to them.
Nearly seven of 10 investors think companies reinvest "too little" of their profits in the business..And half the employees surveyed think companies dole out too little to them.both see a common enemy.
The company estimated that the transaction would enhance its book value by more than $100 million, or about $4 a share.The company said the transaction would bolster after-tax earnings by $3.25 a share when completed and boost its primary capital ratio to 7% from 6.63%.
the transaction would bolster after-tax earnings by $3.25 a share.completed.
UAL fell $6.25 a share to $191.75 on volume of 2.3 million shares in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.concern deepened among takeover stock traders about the length of time it will take to revive the purchase.
UAL fell $6.25 a share to $191.75 on volume of 2.3 million shares in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.concern deepened among takeover stock traders about the length of time it will take to revive the purchase.
UAL management was to pay $15 million for 10%.British Air was to receive a 15% stake.
The buy-out fell through.Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. unexpectedly failed to obtain bank financing.
The buy-out fell through.Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. unexpectedly failed to obtain bank financing.
Mr. Stevens said a revised transaction with less debt leverage is likely to be more attractive to banks.British Air is waiting to see what the buy-out group comes up with.
the original proposal is dead.all aspects of a revised version are up for change, in light of the changes in UAL's market price, the amount of debt banks are willing to fund, and the price British Air would be willing to pay.
the original offer was "a pretty full price.that British Air's contribution "was quite a large chunk for us.
that would be a point in our favor.the {new} deal had us putting up less money but still having 15%.
If the {new} deal had us putting up less money.but having 15%.
who could vote to oust the board.they become impatient.
In the event that the buy-out group stalls in reviving its bid, the UAL board could remain under some pressure to seek another transaction, even without any legal obligation to do so.the buy-out group's task of holding its fragile coalition together, in the face of the bid's collapse and internal opposition from two other employee groups, has been further complicated by an apparent rift in the ranks of the pilot union itself.
In the event that the buy-out group stalls in reviving its bid, the UAL board could remain under some pressure to seek another transaction, even without any legal obligation to do so.the buy-out group's task of holding its fragile coalition together, in the face of the bid's collapse and internal opposition from two other employee groups, has been further complicated by an apparent rift in the ranks of the pilot union itself.
The dissident pilots oppose the plan.it would cause them to lose their seniority.
utilization management -- like most other cost containment strategies -- doesn't appear to have altered the long-term rate of increase in health-care costs.it probably has reduced the level of expenditures for some purchasers.
these savings are often offset by increases in outpatient services and higher administrative costs, according to the report by a panel of health-care experts.utilization management frequently reduces hospitalization costs.
that utilization management should have more of an impact.federal research on the effectiveness of medical treatments helps lead to medical practice guidelines.
that utilization management should have more of an impact as federal research on the effectiveness of medical treatments helps lead to medical practice guidelines.that utilization management will do a better job of containing costs as it spreads to cover medical services delivered outside of hospitals.
that utilization management will also do a better job of containing costs.it spreads to cover medical services delivered outside of hospitals.
There's pretty good evidence that utilization management has reduced inappropriate hospitalization.at the same time, spending on physician services and ambulatory care have mushroomed.
that utilization management reduces their hospital care bills by about 5%.that for the health-care system as whole, some of these savings are offset by administrative and outpatient care costs.
Jerome Grossman, chairman of the panel, agrees that administrative costs of utilization management programs can be high.who is president of New England Medical Center Hospitals in Boston.
that the hospitals he runs deal with more than 100 utilization management firms.that many of them have different procedures and requirements.
to incorporate the new trucks into their product lines.they begin production toward the middle of the 1990s.
Renault and DAF are expected to invest a total of about three billion French francs ($157.8 million) in the venture, including FFr1 billion for design and development costs.the companies will each spend about FFr1 billion on tooling up their plants.
the joint venture represents considerable savings for both Renault and DAF.both companies would in any case have had to renew their existing ranges of light goods vehicles.
the potential European market for light trucks in the 2.5-ton to 4.2-ton range is between 700,000 and 800,000 vehicles annually.Renault and DAF are aiming for a combined market share of about 11%.
Both Renault and DAF will have world-wide marketing rights for the new range of vans and light trucks.Under a separate arrangement, British Aerospace PLC's Rover Group PLC subsidiary will be able to offer the vehicles through its dealers in the U.K.
Under a separate arrangement, British Aerospace PLC's Rover Group PLC subsidiary will also be able to offer the vehicles through its dealers in the U.K.Renault's truck-building subsidiary Renault Vehicles Industriels will have similar rights in France.
It has an unusual kind of independence from elected officials.and has authority over one of the most powerful of government's instruments -- the control of the money supply.
It has an unusual kind of independence from elected officials and still has authority over one of the most powerful of government's instruments -- the control of the money supply.we have a condition that is easily described as undemocratic.
they would have to take the punch bowl away.the party is getting interesting.
First, its position in the government is anomalous Second, the responsibilities of the Federal Reserve as guardian of the currency, which means as guardian of the stability of the price level, sometimes lead it to take measures that are unpopular.the Federal Reserve is an attractive target for complaint by politicians.
The Fed is easily assigned the blame for unpleasantness, like high interest rates or slow economic growth.the politicians can escape responsibility by pointing to the Fed's independence.
The Fed is easily assigned the blame for unpleasantness, like high interest rates or slow economic growth.the politicians can escape responsibility by pointing to the Fed's independence.
This leads to proposals for "reform" of the Fed.these proposals do not rest on a view of what the Fed's problem is or, if they do, they rest on an incorrect view.
But these proposals do not rest on a view of what the Fed's problem is.if they do, they rest on an incorrect view.
or they rest on an incorrect view.they do.
The problem is not that the Fed is too unresponsive to the public interest.it is too responsive to an incorrect view of the public interest.
On average, something that cost $100 30 years ago now costs $425.a wage that was $100 30 years ago would buy only $23.53 worth of stuff today.
At least, it would not have happened without the support of monetary policy that provided for a 10-fold increase in the money supply during the same period.that increase in the money supply would not have happened without the consent of the Federal Reserve.
that it will lose it.it uses its independence too freely.
The common proposals for reforming the Fed would only make the situation worse.they had any effect at all.
The secretary is the world's biggest borrower of money.he is a political agent of a political president, who naturally gives extraordinary weight to the way the economy will perform before the next election, and less to its longer-run health.
Could he plausibly interpret it as encouragement for the Fed to give primary emphasis to stabilizing the price level.would he interpret it as instruction to give more weight to these other objectives that the secretary represents -- low interest rates, short-run economic expansion, and stabilization of exchange rates at internationally managed levels.
The Fed's case for its own independence would be a little stronger.it were more solicitous of the independence of the rest of the government.
The Fed exercises a power given to it by Congress and the president.Congress and the president accept no responsibility for the exercise of the power they have given the Fed.
To leave this decision to an "independent" agency is not only undemocratic.It prevents the conduct of a policy that has a long-term rationale.
It also prevents the conduct of a policy that has a long-term rationale.it leaves the Fed guessing about what are the expectations of its masters, the politicians, who have never had to consider the long-term consequences of monetary policy.
Legislation to this effect has been introduced in Congress in this session by Rep. Stephen Neal (D., N.C.).It is not the kind of thing that is likely to be enacted.
Congress would be required to make a hard decision.Congress would much prefer to leave the hard decision to the Fed and retain its rights of complaint after the fact.
People will say that the nation and the government have other objectives, in addition to stabilizing the price level, which is true.that is not the same as saying that the Federal Reserve has other objectives.
The government has other agencies and instruments for pursuing these other objectives.it has only the Fed to pursue price-level stability.
But it has only the Fed to pursue price-level stability.the Fed has at most very limited ability to contribute to the achievement of other objectives by means other than by stabilizing the price level.
The two objectives most commonly thought to be legitimate competitors for the attention of the Fed are high employment and rapid real growth.the main lesson of economic policy in the past 30 years is that if the Fed compromises with the price-stability objective in the pursuit of these other goals, the result is not high employment and rapid growth but is inflation.
that the result is not high employment and rapid growth but is inflation.the Fed compromises with the price-stability objective in the pursuit of these other goals.
the list of banks boosting reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries, setting out a $200 million provision.and posting a $155.4 million third-quarter net loss.
Abortion-rights advocates won last week's battles.the war over the nation's most-contentious social question is about to pick up again on turf that favors those seeking to restrict abortions.
to pass the state House in Pennsylvania next week.with easy approval by the Senate and by Democratic Gov. Bob Casey expected.
to require the consent of parents.their daughters under the age of 18 can have abortions.
to counter the other's advance in one arena with a victory of its own elsewhere.The action in Pennsylvania will follow last week's collapse of a special session of the Florida legislature to enact restrictions on abortions in that state, and the vote here in Washington by the House to permit federally paid abortions for poor women who are victims of rape or incest.
The action in Pennsylvania, for example, will follow last week's collapse of a special session of the Florida legislature to enact restrictions on abortions in that state, and the vote here in Washington by the House to permit federally paid abortions for poor women who are victims of rape or incest.President Bush is expected to veto the congressional legislation and that, along with the easy approval of the Pennsylvania measure, is likely to mute the abortion-rights activists' claims of momentum and underline the challenges faced by this resurgent movement.
But President Bush is expected to veto the congressional legislation.that, along with the easy approval of the Pennsylvania measure, is likely to mute the abortion-rights activists' claims of momentum and underline the challenges faced by this resurgent movement.
It's great to feel good for once in 15 years.how many more times we're going to feel good in the next 15 is another question.
But how many more times we're going to feel good in the next 15 is another question.abortion-rights activists still face their greatest tests.
The pro-choice movement has shown -- finally -- that it can mobilize.it still hasn't shown that it can win in a state like Pennsylvania or Missouri, where abortion has been clearly an electoral issue and where it's been an emotional issue for a long time.
where abortion has been clearly an electoral issue.where it's been an emotional issue for a long time.
The foes of abortion hold the strong whip hand in Pennsylvania.GOP state Rep. Stephen Freind of Delaware County, the legislature's leading foe of abortion, has been given all but free rein to press a strict seven-point plan to restrict abortion and, he hopes, to force the Supreme Court directly to reassess its 1973 Roe v..Wade decision that established the right of abortion in the first place.
the state's House Judiciary Committee approved it in Harrisburg this week.the full Pennsylvania House is expected to take up the bill next Tuesday.
to ban abortions after 24 weeks of pregnancy.to avert the death of the mother.
The Freind legislation includes a provision to ban abortions after 24 weeks of pregnancy, except to avert the death of the mother.the Pennsylvania measure also includes an "informed consent" provision that may become widely imitated by abortion foes who want to make women contemplating abortion as uncomfortable as possible with the procedure and with themselves.
The Freind legislation includes a provision to ban abortions after 24 weeks of pregnancy, except to avert the death of the mother.But the Pennsylvania measure includes an "informed consent" provision that may become widely imitated by abortion foes who want to make women contemplating abortion as uncomfortable as possible with the procedure and with themselves.
to have all of the appropriate materials and advice made available to her.she makes a decision which, one way or the other, might remain with her for the rest of her life.
Susan Rogin, a consultant to abortion-rights activists in the state, takes comfort from the fact that the state's House abortion opponents "haven't been able to muster the votes to overturn a veto on abortion in 16 years.proponents believe they may be able to shake enough votes loose to override the veto if they are successful in portraying the legislation as a matter of parents' rights.
they may be able to shake enough votes loose to override the veto.they are successful in portraying the legislation as a matter of parents' rights.
that a second doctor must be on hand to help it survive.fetuses survive an abortion.
The legislation failed by one vote to clear the House Rules Committee Tuesday.anti-abortionists still may succeed in bringing the measure to the floor this fall.
The legislation failed by one vote to clear the House Rules Committee Tuesday.but anti-abortionists may succeed in bringing the measure to the floor this fall.
they can defeat it.it comes to a floor vote.
In Illinois, lawmakers will vote before next spring on legislation requiring physicians to perform tests on fetuses at 20 weeks to determine their gestational age, weight and lung maturity along with a provision requiring that, if fetuses survive an abortion, a second doctor must be on hand to help it survive.Abortion foes in Wisconsin expect a parental-consent bill to be sent to the state assembly floor by early November and are hopeful of prevailing in both houses by next March.
In Illinois, lawmakers will vote before next spring on legislation requiring physicians to perform tests on fetuses at 20 weeks to determine their gestational age, weight and lung maturity along with a provision requiring that, if fetuses survive an abortion, a second doctor must be on hand to help it survive.Abortion foes in Wisconsin expect a parental-consent bill to be sent to the state assembly floor by early November and are hopeful of prevailing in both houses by next March.
Next year is an election year.the legislators just don't want to do anything about this now.
Next year is an election year.the legislators just don't want to do anything about this now.
This legislative activity comes.both sides are undertaking new mobilization efforts, plunging into gubernatorial races in Virginia and New Jersey, and girding for next autumn's state elections.
Those who are on the other side can hardly oppose alternative funding.they continue to insist on calling themselves 'pro-choice' rather than `pro-abortion.
The things that I thought would get me.Had fangs and pointed ears.I was just a child.And confronted by my fears.
that it is selling two million shares.that the rest are being sold by certain stockholders.
Final approval came on a simple voice vote in the Senate.the swift passage contrasted with months of negotiations over the underlying bill which is laced with special-interest provisions for both members and the executive branch.
An estimated $33 million was added for university and science grants, including $1.5 million for Smith College.Southwest lawmakers were a driving force behind $54.6 million for U.S.-Mexico border facilities, or more than double the administration's request.
More than $1.8 million is allocated for pensions and expenses for former presidents.the budget for the official residence of Vice President Quayle is more than doubled, with $200,000 designated for improvements to the property.
Investigation and taxpayer service accounts would grow to $1.6 billion.Congress specifically added $7.4 million for stepped up criminal investigations of money laundering related to drug traffic.
Within the IRS, nearly $1.95 billion is provided for processing tax returns, a 12% increase over fiscal 1989 and double what the government was spending five years ago.and Congress added $7.4 million for stepped up criminal investigations of money laundering related to drug traffic.
and Congress specifically added $7.4 million for stepped up criminal investigations of money laundering related to drug traffic.The large increase in Customs Service air-interdiction funds is intended to counter smuggling.
The large increase in Customs Service air-interdiction funds is also intended to counter smuggling.the annual appropriations level has more than quadrupled in five years.
Repeal is considered likely now.the Treasury Department bill has been used as a vehicle to raise the profile of the issue and block any action in the interim.
A House-Senate conference reached agreement Oct. 5 on virtually all major provisions of the bill.final settlement has been stalled because of differences between the two men over the fate of a modest Arkansas-based program to provide technical information to farmers seeking to reduce their dependence on chemical fertilizers and pesticides.
The program's nonprofit sponsors received $900,000 in fiscal 1989 through an Extension Service grant.Mr. Whitten has been adamant in insisting that the program be cut in 1990.
The 79-year-old Mississippian takes a more orthodox, entrenched view of agriculture policy than those in the movement to reduce chemical use.as a master of pork-barrel politics, he is believed to be annoyed as well that the project moved to Arkansas from a Tennessee center near Memphis and the northern Mississippi border.
the gyrations in world stock markets -- and in B.A.T's share price -- since last Friday's sharp Wall Street sell-off have increased the likelihood of shareholder approval for the restructuring.anything.
B.A.T has been London's best-performing blue chip over the past six months, up 40% against a 4% rise in the Financial Times 100-Share Index.this week, B.A.T has been hit harder than other big U.K. stocks -- first by the market gyrations, then by Tuesday's San Francisco earthquake, which could leave B.A.T's Farmers Group Inc. insurance unit facing big claims.
B.A.T rose five pence (eight cents) to 756 pence ($11.91) in London yesterday.a late market rally erased a 28-pence fall earlier in the day.
the restructuring will get the required support.B.A.T's restructuring, which was never going to happen quickly, now will take longer because of the market upheaval.
Company officials, holders and analysts now say the market gyrations could delay the actions well into the second half.who expected the disposals to be substantially complete by the end of next year's first half.
We don't have an absolute deadline.if market conditions are truly awful we might decide it is not the right time," to take particular steps.
and we might decide it is not the right time," to take particular steps.market conditions are truly awful.
the company will remain in play.B.A.T receives approval for the restructuring.
Even if B.A.T receives approval for the restructuring, the company will remain in play.the situation may unfold over the next 12 months, rather than six.
The new B.A.T will be a smaller tobacco and financial-services hybrid whose price-earnings ratio may more closely reflect the lower-growth tobacco business than the higher-multiple financial-services business.B.A.T's restructuring may only make the company a more manageable target for other corporate predators -- possibly such acquisitive bidders as Hanson PLC.
The last few days will surely slow down the pace of events.I wouldn't write off" Sir James or other potential bidders.
B.A.T isn't predicting a postponement.the units "are quality businesses and we are encouraged by the breadth of inquiries.
because the units "are quality businesses.we are encouraged by the breadth of inquiries.
B.A.T isn't predicting a postponement because the units "are quality businesses and we are encouraged by the breadth of inquiries.the delay could happen if B.A.T doesn't get adequate bids.
But the delay could happen.B.A.T doesn't get adequate bids.
jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and U.S. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about Sir James's prospects.Sir James has said he intends to mount a new bid for B.A.T once approval from U.S. insurance regulators is received.
to mount a new bid for B.A.T.approval from U.S. insurance regulators is received.
Though Sir James has said he intends to mount a new bid for B.A.T once approval from U.S. insurance regulators is received, jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and U.S. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about Sir James's prospects.Market uncertainty clouds the outlook for B.A.T's attracting a premium price for its U.S. retailing properties.
jitters over prospects for junk-bond financing and U.S. leverage buy-outs are making investors more skeptical about Sir James's prospects Market uncertainty also clouds the outlook for B.A.T's attracting a premium price for its U.S. retailing properties.Tuesday's California earthquake initially knocked 3.7% off B.A.T's share price in London yesterday because of fears of the potential claims to Los Angeles-based Farmers, which has a substantial portion of its property and casualty exposure in California.
Bridge and highway collapses will disrupt truck and auto transportation in the San Francisco Bay area for months to come.rail, air and ocean-shipping links to the area escaped Tuesday's earthquake with only minor damage, and many are expected to be operating normally today.
But rail, air and ocean-shipping links to the area escaped Tuesday's earthquake with only minor damage.many are expected to be operating normally today.
Air traffic at San Francisco International Airport was running about 50% of normal yesterday afternoon.airport officals said they expect a return to full operations by Saturday.
they expect a return to full operations by Saturday.Getting to and from the airport in coming weeks may be the problem.
Right now most of the roads into the Bay area are closed.the list of closings changes about every 20 minutes.
This {Wednesday} morning the San Mateo bridge was open.now we are informed that it is closed.
that road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages.none of the company's terminals, trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake.
road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages.four-hour to five-hour traffic delays on the San Mateo bridge.
that although none of the company's terminals, trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake, road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages.power failures prevented its package-sorting facilities from operating, causing delays.
A UPS spokesman said that although none of the company's terminals, trucks or airplanes were damaged in the quake, road shutdowns and power failures have impeded its pickup and delivery of packages..The spokesman noted four-hour to five-hour traffic delays on the San Mateo bridge, for example..In addition, power failures prevented its package-sorting facilities from operating, causing delays.freight railroads reported that damage to their facilities was relatively minor, with Santa Fe Pacific Corp. 's rail unit the least affected by the quake.
Santa Fe stopped freight trains Tuesday night.its officials inspected track.
service on its north-south coastline, which is used by an Amtrak train between Los Angeles and Seattle, was suspended temporarily because of kinked rails near the epicenter of the quake.service on the line is expected to resume by noon today.
that the rail system was running a full fleet of 45 trains during the day to provide an alternative for highway travelers.that San Francisco's trolley cars and trolley buses were running at full service levels.
they didn't appear to spread to other airports.air-traffic delays in San Francisco were significant yesterday.
The earthquake shattered windows at San Francisco International's air-traffic control tower and rained pieces of the ceiling down on controllers, three of whom suffered minor injuries.Terminals at San Francisco International were damaged.
Terminals at San Francisco International also were damaged.the tower itself was intact.
Runways at San Francisco weren't damaged.traffic was being limited yesterday to 27 arrivals and 27 departures an hour -- down from 33 to 45 an hour normally.
but traffic was being limited yesterday to 27 arrivals and 27 departures an hour -- down from 33 to 45 an hour normally.the noise level in the control tower was overwhelming without the windows.
flights were diverted to airports in Sacramento and Stockton, Calif.; Reno and Las Vegas, Nev.; and Los Angeles.the airport was closed.
United Airlines, the largest carrier at San Francisco, was operating only 50% of its scheduled service in and out of the area because of damage to its terminal.which was causing delays for travelers headed to the Bay area.
caused.a sprinkler system was triggered by the tremors.
none of its people were injured at the airport.as the airport was being evacuated Tuesday night, two babies were born.
in fact two babies were born.the airport was being evacuated Tuesday night.
Yesterday, the United ticket counter was active, with people trying to get flights out.demand for seats into the city also was active, with people trying to get there to help family and friends.
Yesterday, the United ticket counter was active, with people trying to get flights out.demand for seats into the city was active, with people trying to get there to help family and friends.
its flights into and out of San Francisco weren't affected.getting information about its operations was difficult.
Whitbread & Co. put its spirits division up for sale.that are being sold.
Among the brands for sale are Beefeater gin, the No. 2 imported gin in the U.S., and Laphroaig single-malt whiskey.for sale are Buckingham Wile Co and Whitbread's Atlas Peak Vineyards in California's Napa Valley.
That purchase represented an attempt by Whitbread, a venerable British brewer, to become a major player in the global liquor business.Whitbread has been squeezed by giant rivals amid widespread consolidation in the industry.
The Whitbread spirits auction "is an extremely interesting development.naturally we'll be considering it carefully.
Among possible buyers, Grand Metropolitan PLC might find Beefeater a useful addition to its portfolio Guinness is considered less likely to bid for the Whitbread spirits.Two other global liquor giants, Canada's Seagram Co. and Britain's Allied-Lyons PLC are possible buyers.
Seagram's gin is the world's No. 2 gin brand.the company doesn't own any of the major gin brands imported in the U.S.
Allied-Lyons doesn't own any major white-spirit brands.powerful in whiskey.
Two other global liquor giants, Canada's Seagram Co. and Britain's Allied-Lyons PLC, also are possible buyers.Smaller liquor companies, such as Brown-Forman Corp. and American Brands Inc. of the U.S., are likely to be interested.
In New York, a spokesman for American Brands wouldn't comment.Brown-Forman, a Louisville, Ky. distiller declined to comment.
The company, which is retaining most of its wine and all of its soft-drink interests, didn't break out results for the businesses it plans to sell.analysts estimate their trading profit at #30 million.
British brewers currently own thousands of pubs.which sell only the breweries' beer and soft drinks.
which last month paid #50.7 million for regional British brewer Boddington Group PLC.Whitbread owns the license to brew and distribute Heineken and Stella Artois beers in Britain.
Whitbread now intends to bolster its brewing interests, in an effort to grab a share of sales to free houses.Whitbread intends to focus on its newer hotel, liquor store and restaurant businesses in Europe and North America.
In addition, Whitbread intends to focus on its newer hotel, liquor store and restaurant businesses in Europe and North America.Whitbread announced that Mr. Jarvis will become the company's chief executive March 1.
NEWHALL LAND & FARMING Co., Valencia, Calif., announced a 2-for-1 split in the real estate limited partnership's units and increased its regular quarterly cash distribution 33%, to 40 cents a unit.The real estate limited partnership said it will pay a special year-end cash distribution of 10 cents a unit.
Digital Equipment Corp. is planning a big coming-out party on Tuesday for its first line of mainframe computers.an uninvited guest is expected to try to crash the party.
Digital, based in Maynard, Mass., hopes to stage a repeat performance in mainframes.it has spent almost $1 billion developing the new technology.
Digital's mainframe is designed not as a central computer around which everything revolves, but as part of a decentralized network weaving together hundreds of workstations, personal computers, printers and other devices.unlike IBM's water-cooled mainframes, it doesn't need any plumbing.
The computer giant's current mainframe line, which has sold well and has huge profit margins, is starting to show its age..The new 3090s due next week will boost performance by only about 8% to 10%.IBM isn't expected to deliver a new generation of mainframes until 1991.
The heightened competition will hit IBM at a difficult time.no one expects IBM's rivals to deliver a knockout.
We're not going to walk in and replace a company's corporate accounting system.it's already running on an IBM mainframe.
that despite Digital's low prices, "we aren't about to unplug our IBM mainframes for a DEC machine..The software conversion costs would dwarf any savings.Mr. Rose is still looking seriously at the 9000.
The software conversion costs would dwarf any savings.But Mr. Rose is looking seriously at the 9000.
larger computers may be needed.that system grows.
In the past, customers had to go to IBM.they outgrew the VAX.
it isn't expected to begin shipping in volume until next year.Digital will announce a full family of mainframes next week.
Amdahl Corp., backed by Japan's Fujitsu Ltd., has a growing share of the market with its low-priced, IBM-compatible machines.National Advanced Systems, a joint venture of Japan's Hitachi Ltd. and General Motors Corp. 's Electronic Data Systems, is expected to unveil a line of powerful IBM-compatible mainframes later this year.
The frenetic stock and bond markets cooled off.the dollar slumped.
Stocks rose slightly.trading activity slowed from the frenzied pace earlier this week.
Helped by futures-related program buying, the Dow Jones Industrial Average gained 4.92 points to close at 2643.65.the Dow Jones Transportation Average fell for the seventh-consecutive session as more investors dumped UAL shares.
But the Dow Jones Transportation Average fell for the seventh-consecutive session.more investors dumped UAL shares.
Bond prices rallied early yesterday morning.traders scrambled to buy Treasury issues on fears that the Northern California earthquake might lead to a stock-market debacle.
Bond prices rallied early yesterday morning as traders scrambled to buy Treasury issues on fears that the Northern California earthquake might lead to a stock-market debacle.when stocks held steady, Treasury bonds later retreated.
But Treasury bonds later retreated.stocks held steady.
Bond prices rallied early yesterday morning.But Treasury bonds retreated.
Speculation that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates in coming weeks helped push the dollar down.boosting stocks.
Speculation that the Federal Reserve will lower interest rates in coming weeks helped push the dollar down while boosting stocks.many investors remain wary about stocks.
But many investors remain wary about stocks.they expect continued turbulence in the junk-bond market that would make it more difficult to finance corporate takeovers.
the problems in the junk-bond area are just beginning.this will be very unsettling for companies that have issued junk bonds.
In a bull market, credit does not matter.when it does matter, then it's the only thing that matters.
But then it's the only thing that matters.it does matter.
But many investors remain wary about stocks.many institutional investors are reacting to the stock market's plunge as "a great buying opportunity.
Oil prices initially rose on fears that the massive earthquake in Northern California would disrupt production.prices later reversed course, finishing slightly lower, as investors concluded that any cuts wouldn't be large and that foreign oil producers would quickly pick up the slack.
Oil prices initially rose on fears that the massive earthquake in Northern California would disrupt production.But prices reversed course, finishing slightly lower.
But prices later reversed course, finishing slightly lower.investors concluded that any cuts wouldn't be large and that foreign oil producers would quickly pick up the slack.
that any cuts wouldn't be large.that foreign oil producers would quickly pick up the slack.
AMR's earnings decline comes.the parent company of American Airlines and the rest of the airline industry set profit records.
Some analysts say the latest results only seem pale by comparison with a spectacular second half of 1988.AMR's stumble doesn't bode well for the rest of the industry.
The Fort Worth, Texas, company is generally regarded as one of the best-run in the business.its difficulties are likely to be reflected industrywide as other major carriers report third-quarter results over the next several days.
and its difficulties are likely to be reflected industrywide.other major carriers report third-quarter results over the next several days.
AMR Corp. posted an 8.8% drop in third-quarter net income and said the fourth quarter will be "disappointing" as well, primarily because of slimmer profit margins and increased fuel costs.the company's board issued a statement condemning "ill-conceived and reckless" bids and saying it was "pleased" that Mr. Trump had backed out.
AMR Corp. posted an 8.8% drop in third-quarter net income and said the fourth quarter will be "disappointing" as well, primarily because of slimmer profit margins and increased fuel costs.the company's board issued a statement condemning "ill-conceived and reckless" bids and saying it was "pleased" that Mr. Trump had backed out.
Costs are giving them a little bit of trouble.the whole industry is having a pricing problem.
that you have to do so without taxpayer support.you want to develop property on a barrier island.
Private-property rights would be upheld.the legislation would not ban coastal development.
Private-property rights would be upheld.home builders would have to bear the full costs of such beach-house construction.
the 1988 drop wasn't statistically significant.last year's figure was down from 13.4% in 1987 and marked the fifth consecutive annual decline in the poverty rate.
While last year's figure was down from 13.4% in 1987 and marked the fifth consecutive annual decline in the poverty rate, the Census Bureau said the 1988 drop wasn't statistically significant.The bureau's report showed that while some measures of the nation's economic well-being improved modestly in 1988, the fruits of prosperity were shared less equitably than the year before.
that the fruits of prosperity were shared less equitably than the year before.some measures of the nation's economic well-being improved modestly in 1988.
that "most groups either stayed the same or improved.Since the late 1960s, the distribution of income has been slowly getting less equal.
Per capita income, a widely used measure of a nation's economic health, hit a record in 1988, rising 1.7% after inflation adjustment to $13,120.the median income of American families fell 0.2%, the first time it has failed to rise since 1982.
The Census Bureau counts all cash income in determining whether families are below the line.it doesn't consider other government benefits, such as Medicare.
Thanks largely to the continued growth of the U.S. economy, the poverty rate is now substantially lower than the 1983 peak of 15.3%.the improvements have been modest in the past couple of years.
In 1988, 31.6% of blacks lived in poverty, compared with 10.1% for whites and 26.8% for Hispanics.two-thirds of all poor Americans were white.
more than three times as many elderly would be below the poverty line.it weren't for Social Security payments.
If it weren't for Social Security payments, more than three times as many elderly would be below the poverty line, Mr. Butz said.The Census Bureau said:.-- Some 17.2% of all money income received by families in 1988 went to the wealthiest 5% of all families, up from 16.9% in 1987..That is the greatest share reported for any year since 1950, although changing definitions over the years distort the comparison..-- The top fifth of all families got 44% of the income, up from 41.5% a decade earlier..The bottom fifth of all families got 4.6% of the income, down from 5.2% a decade earlier..-- Confirming other government data showing that wages aren't keeping pace with inflation, earnings of year-round, full-time male workers fell 1.3% in 1988 after adjusting for higher prices, the first such drop since 1982..Earnings of female workers were unchanged..-- Women working full-time earned 66 cents for every dollar earned by men, a penny more than in 1987 and seven cents more than in 1978..-- Median household income -- which includes both those living in families and those who aren't -- rose 0.3% last year to $27,225 after inflation..It rose sharply in the Northeast and Midwest and fell slightly in the South and West..Median family income was $32,191, down 0.2%..-- Per capita income of blacks, though still only 60% that of whites, rose 3.9% in 1988, while per capita income of whites rose only 1.5%..-- Among married couples, the gap between blacks and whites narrowed sharply, as income of black families shot up 6.8% while income of whites didn't budge.
That is the greatest share reported for any year since 1950.changing definitions over the years distort the comparison.
earnings of year-round, full-time male workers fell 1.3% in 1988 the first such drop since 1982.adjusting for higher prices.
Per capita income of blacks, though still only 60% that of whites, rose 3.9% in 1988.per capita income of whites rose only 1.5%.
Among married couples, the gap between blacks and whites narrowed sharply.income of black families shot up 6.8% while income of whites didn't budge.
as income of black families shot up 6.8%.income of whites didn't budge.
The Census Bureau also said:.-- Some 17.2% of all money income received by families in 1988 went to the wealthiest 5% of all families, up from 16.9% in 1987..That is the greatest share reported for any year since 1950, although changing definitions over the years distort the comparison..-- The top fifth of all families got 44% of the income, up from 41.5% a decade earlier..The bottom fifth of all families got 4.6% of the income, down from 5.2% a decade earlier..-- Confirming other government data showing that wages aren't keeping pace with inflation, earnings of year-round, full-time male workers fell 1.3% in 1988 after adjusting for higher prices, the first such drop since 1982..Earnings of female workers were unchanged..-- Women working full-time earned 66 cents for every dollar earned by men, a penny more than in 1987 and seven cents more than in 1978..-- Median household income -- which includes both those living in families and those who aren't -- rose 0.3% last year to $27,225 after inflation..It rose sharply in the Northeast and Midwest and fell slightly in the South and West..Median family income was $32,191, down 0.2%..-- Per capita income of blacks, though still only 60% that of whites, rose 3.9% in 1988, while per capita income of whites rose only 1.5%..-- Among married couples, the gap between blacks and whites narrowed sharply, as income of black families shot up 6.8% while income of whites didn't budge.Fueling a controversy that has been simmering for years, the Census Bureau said its figures would look far rosier if it recalculated the poverty threshold using an improved consumer-price measure adopted in 1983.
its figures would look far rosier.it recalculated the poverty threshold using an improved consumer-price measure adopted in 1983.
some 3.5 million fewer people would have fallen below the poverty line in 1988 under the alternative calculation.the poverty rate would have been 10.5% instead of 13.1%.
Seven years late in the launching, $1 billion over budget and a target of anti-nuclear protestors, Galileo has long been a symbol of trouble for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.yesterday, as Atlantis rumbled into a patch of clear sky above Florida with storm clouds closing in on it, NASA sought to turn Galileo into a symbol of triumph.
But yesterday NASA sought to turn Galileo into a symbol of triumph.Atlantis rumbled into a patch of clear sky above Florida with storm clouds closing in on it.
it will parachute a probe into the dense Jovian atmosphere in July 1995.all goes well.
Jupiter and other bodies in the outer solar system are rich in elements such as hydrogen that are essential for life on Earth.these planets are lifeless.
Jupiter and other bodies in the outer solar system are rich in elements such as hydrogen that are essential for life on Earth, but these planets are lifeless.Earth has a diminished store of such material but is rich in life.
The Galileo project started in 1977.a number of project veterans were on hand to watch the launch.
that Galileo's plutonium power source could have released lethal doses of radiation.the shuttle exploded yesterday.
Galileo will skim past Earth in 1990 and 1992.that Galileo could crash to Earth then.
they dropped plans to infiltrate the Kennedy Space Center.NASA beefed up its security.
they dropped plans to infiltrate the Kennedy Space Center after NASA beefed up its security.One protest did get past NASA's guard.
The successful launch continues a remarkable recovery in the U.S. space-science program.Not all of NASA's space-science work will be so auspicious.
NASA won't attempt a rescue.it will try to predict whether any of the rubble will smash to the ground and where.
Private relief agencies, such as the Salvation Army and Red Cross, mobilized almost instantly to help people.the Washington bureaucracy "took hours getting into gear.
not to reveal details of the agreement.it is completed.
Lawyers for shareholders, Bally and Mr. Trump all declined to talk publicly about the proposed settlement, citing a request by a federal court magistrate not to reveal details of the agreement until it is completed.some attorneys who are familiar with the matter said the $6.5 million payment will be shared by Bally and Mr. Trump, with the casino and hotel concern probably paying the bulk of the money.
Walt Disney Co. and Saul Steinberg's Reliance Group Holdings Inc. agreed to pay to settle a similar suit in July.Mr. Steinberg probably faced much more potential liability because, when he sued Disney during his takeover battle, he filed on behalf of all shareholders.
Mr. Steinberg probably faced much more potential liability.when he sued Disney during his takeover battle, he filed on behalf of all shareholders.
because he filed on behalf of all shareholders.he sued Disney during his takeover battle.
the New York investor didn't demand the company also pay a premium to other shareholders.Disney offered to pay Mr. Steinberg a premium for his shares.
to pay Mr. Steinberg a premium for his shares.the company pay a premium to other shareholders.
he sued only on behalf of himself.Mr. Trump sued Bally.
Mr. Steinberg probably faced much more potential liability because, when he sued Disney during his takeover battle, he filed on behalf of all shareholders..When Disney offered to pay Mr. Steinberg a premium for his shares, the New York investor didn't demand the company also pay a premium to other shareholders..When Mr. Trump sued Bally, he sued only on behalf of himself.Mr. Trump and Bally appeared to have some leverage in the case because in the state of Delaware, where Bally is incorporated, courts have held that greenmail is often protected by the business-judgment rule.
Mr. Trump and Bally also appeared to have some leverage in the case.in the state of Delaware, where Bally is incorporated, courts have held that greenmail is often protected by the business-judgment rule.
The central charge against Judge Hastings is that he conspired with a Washington lawyer to obtain a $150,000 bribe from defendants in a criminal case before the judge, in return for leniency.He is accused of lying under oath and of leaking information obtained from a wiretap he supervised.
who erupted into applause.he finished his argument.
he is being victimized.that the impeachment proceedings against him constitute double jeopardy.
Judge Hastings, who was acquitted of similar charges by a federal jury in 1983, claims he is being victimized and that the impeachment proceedings against him constitute double jeopardy.Rep. John Bryant (D., Texas), the lead counsel for the House managers who conducted a lengthy inquiry into Judge Hastings' activities, said "a mountain of evidence points to his certain guilt.
he will be removed from office immediately.the judge is impeached.
If the judge is impeached he will be removed from office immediately.he will continue to fight and is contemplating an appeal of any impeachment to the U.S. Supreme Court.
that cleanup costs aren't damages.and aren't covered under commercial policies.
Travelers and other insurers have maintained that cleanup costs aren't damages and thus aren't covered under commercial policies.They have argued that government proceedings notifying a company of potential responsibility don't fit the legal definition of a lawsuit; thus, such governmental proceedings aren't covered by the policies.
that government proceedings notifying a company of potential responsibility don't fit the legal definition of a lawsuit.such governmental proceedings aren't covered by the policies.
Avondale asked Travelers to defend it in the state proceeding.the insurer didn't respond.
The appeals court upheld a district judge's ruling that the insurer had to defend the company in such proceedings.We think an ordinary businessman reading this policy would have believed himself covered for the demands and potential damage claims" stemming from any cleanup.
This decision will have a very considerable impact.many commercial insurance policies are issued by companies based in New York.
that the influence of the appeals court in New York "will make insurers sit up and listen.other appeals courts have ruled differently on whether cleanup costs are damages.
that at some period they were unable to accept new clients.they had an emergency.
Mr. Karalis served as general counsel at Sperry Corp.joining Apple in 1986.
Sears, Roebuck & Co. is negotiating with Boston pension fund adviser Aldrich, Eastman & Waltch Inc. to refinance the property for close to $850 million, according to people close to the negotiations.failing to find a buyer for the Sears Tower in Chicago.
At the end of the term of the convertible loan, Sears could still own half the building.AEW could own the other half.
The new manager will face the daunting task of leasing 1.8 million square feet in a relatively soft Chicago real estate market.it has not yet been decided exactly how much of the mortgage AEW will be able to convert into equity.
that it is not a sale.and does not trigger costly transfer taxes and reappraisal.
it would put the 110-story tower on the block almost a year ago as part of its anti-takeover restructuring.Japanese institutions shied away from bidding on the high-profile tower out of fear their purchase of the property would trigger anti-Japanese sentiment.
Last summer, Sears appeared to have a deal with Canadian developer Olympia & York Developments Ltd.that deal fell through in September after it became clear that the sale would lead to a major real estate tax reassessment, raising property taxes, and making it difficult to lease the building at competitive prices.
But that deal fell through in September.it became clear that the sale would lead to a major real estate tax reassessment, raising property taxes, and making it difficult to lease the building at competitive prices.
Sears' investment banker, Goldman, Sachs & Co., sought financing in Japan.Japanese authorities apparently were concerned that a refinancing also would attract too much publicity.
their purchase of the property would trigger anti-Japanese sentiment.that a refinancing would attract too much publicity.
However, Japanese authorities apparently were concerned that a refinancing also would attract too much publicity.Sears went back to AEW, the Boston pension adviser that had proposed a convertible debt deal during the first round of bids last spring.
it signed a definitive agreement to acquire two units of Datatronic AB of Stockholm for cash..The amount wasn't disclosed.The electronics maker and retailer estimated the sale price at between $100 million and $200 million for Datatronic's Victor microcomputer and Micronic hand-held computer subsidiaries.
it signed a definitive agreement to acquire two units of Datatronic AB of Stockholm for cash.Tandy will acquire rights to the Victor and Micronic names for computers.
The provisions, in deficit-reduction bills recently passed by the House and Senate, could further cool the takeover boom that has been the driving force behind the bull market in stocks for much of the 1980s.some investment bankers have already started restructuring deals to cope with the expected rules.
It becomes a source of cash" for the company making the LBO.it gets a deduction and doesn't have to repay the debt for several years.
A second provision passed by the Senate and House would eliminate a rule allowing companies that post losses resulting from LBO debt to receive refunds of taxes paid over the previous three years.if a company posted a loss of $100 million from buy-out interest payments, the existing rule would allow the concern to be able to receive a refund from the tax it paid from 1986 through 1989, when it may have been a profitable public company.
For example the existing rule would allow the concern to be able to receive a refund from the tax it paid from 1986 through 1989.a company posted a loss of $100 million from buy-out interest payments.
A second provision passed by the Senate and House would eliminate a rule allowing companies that post losses resulting from LBO debt to receive refunds of taxes paid over the previous three years.that rule is being virtually overlooked by Wall Street, which is concentrating on coping with the deduction issue.
Prices for LBOs have to come down.you don't have that feature.
An investment group led by Chicago's Pritzker family recently lowered a $3.35 billion bid for American Medical International, Beverly Hills, Calif., because of the threat of the legislation.his firm didn't raise the ante for a target company earlier this month after a stronger bid emerged from a public company that wasn't concerned about the financing provision.
his firm didn't raise the ante for a target company earlier this month.a stronger bid emerged from a public company that wasn't concerned about the financing provision.
We would have paid more.we thought that law wasn't going to pass.
The pigs in the trough may have to give a little bit of the slop back.then the deal can go through.
The pigs in the trough may have to give a little bit of the slop back.and the deal can go through.
they wouldn't fall under the junk-bond category that would lose its deductibility.they have a lower interest rate.
The House version of the bill would make debt non-deductible.it pays five percentage points above Treasury notes, has at least a five-year maturity and doesn't pay interest for at least one year out of the first five.
The House version of the bill would make debt non-deductible.The bill would declare that the debt is equity and therefore isn't deductible.
that the debt is equity.and isn't deductible.
The Senate bill would only deny the deduction.interest is actually paid.
Currently the debt holder is taxed on the accrued interest.the issuer doesn't pay tax.
Currently, even though the issuer doesn't pay tax, the debt holder is taxed on the accrued interest.those holders are often foreign investors and tax-exempt pension funds that don't pay taxes on their holdings.
LBOs will become somewhat more difficult.Wall Street finds ways around the new rules.
The government moved aggressively to open the spigots of federal aid for victims of the California earthquake.its reservoir of emergency funds must be replenished soon if the aid is to continue.
but its reservoir of emergency funds must be replenished soon.the aid is to continue.
President Bush signed a disaster declaration covering seven Northern California counties.an unusually wide array of federal agencies moved to provide specialized assistance.
The Department of Housing and Urban Development prepared to make as many as 100 vacant houses available for those left homeless, the Agriculture Department was set to divert food from the school-lunch program to earthquake victims.the Pentagon was providing everything from radio communications to blood transfusions to military police for directing traffic.
The Department of Housing and Urban Development prepared to make as many as 100 vacant houses available for those left homeless, the Agriculture Department was set to divert food from the school-lunch program to earthquake victims, and the Pentagon was providing everything from radio communications to blood transfusions to military police for directing traffic.the pool of federal emergency-relief funds already is running low because of the heavy costs of cleaning up Hurricane Hugo, and Congress will be under pressure to allocate more money quickly.
But the pool of federal emergency-relief funds already is running low because of the heavy costs of cleaning up Hurricane Hugo.Congress will be under pressure to allocate more money quickly.
In Hugo's wake, Congress allocated $1.1 billion in relief funds.$273 million of that money remains and could be diverted for quick expenditures related to the earthquake.
$273 million of that money remains and could be diverted for quick expenditures related to the earthquake.Now enormous costs for earthquake relief will pile on top of outstanding costs for hurricane relief.
that we won't have enough for all of the emergencies that are now facing us.we will have to consider appropriate requests for follow-on funding.
The federal government isn't even attempting yet to estimate how much the earthquake will cost it.There will be, I think quite obviously, a very large amount of money required from all levels of government.
Now, though, enormous costs for earthquake relief will pile on top of outstanding costs for hurricane relief.it isn't just Washington's relief dollars that are spread thin; its relief manpower also is stretched.
that are spread thin.its relief manpower is stretched.
FEMA still has special disaster centers open to handle the aftermath of Hugo.that "we're pretty thin.
but its reservoir of emergency funds must be replenished soon if the aid is to continue.To further complicate relief efforts, the privately funded American Red Cross finds itself strapped for funds after its big Hugo operation.
It just makes it a little rough.you have to worry about the budget.
All the precise types of federal aid that will be sent to California won't be determined.state officials make specific requests to FEMA.
All the precise types of federal aid that will be sent to California won't be determined until state officials make specific requests to FEMA.in the confusion after the earthquake, "the information flow is a little slow coming in from the affected area.
All the precise types of federal aid that will be sent to California won't be determined until state officials make specific requests to FEMA And in the confusion after the earthquake, "the information flow is a little slow coming in from the affected area.some aid is moving westward from Washington almost immediately.
they will make available as many as 100 Bay area houses that are under HUD loans but now are vacant.the houses have been inspected to ensure they are sound.
they will make available as many as 100 Bay area houses that are under HUD loans but now are vacant after the houses have been inspected to ensure they are sound..Additional housing vouchers and certificates will be made available.some housing and community-development funds may be shifted from other programs or made available for emergency use.
The IRS said it will waive certain tax penalties for earthquake victims unable to meet return deadlines or make payments because of the quake's devastation.the Treasury said residents of the San Francisco area will be able to cash in savings bonds even if they haven't held them for the minimum six-month period.
residents of the San Francisco area will be able to cash in savings bonds.they haven't held them for the minimum six-month period.
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney ordered the military services to set up an emergency command center in the Pentagon and prepare to respond to various FEMA requests for assistance.the full extent of the devastation was known.
By yesterday afternoon, Air Force transport planes began moving additional rescue and medical supplies, physicians, communications equipment and FEMA personnel to California..A military jet flew a congressional delegation and senior Bush administration officials to survey the damage.dozens of additional crews and transport aircraft were on alert "awaiting orders to move emergency supplies.
Two Air Force facilities near Sacramento, and Travis Air Force Base, 50 miles northeast of San Francisco, were designated to serve as medical-airlift centers.Some victims were treated at the Letterman Army Medical Center in San Francisco and at the Naval Hospital in Oakland.
Two Air Force facilities near Sacramento, and Travis Air Force Base, 50 miles northeast of San Francisco, were designated to serve as medical-airlift centers..Some victims also were treated at the Letterman Army Medical Center in San Francisco and at the Naval Hospital in Oakland.20 military police from the Presidio, a military base in San Francisco, are assisting with traffic control, and a Navy ship was moved from a naval station at Treasure Island near the Bay Bridge to San Francisco to help fight fires.
In addition, 20 military police from the Presidio, a military base in San Francisco, are assisting with traffic control.a Navy ship was moved from a naval station at Treasure Island near the Bay Bridge to San Francisco to help fight fires.
To help residents in Northern California rebuild, FEMA intends to set up 17 disaster assistance offices in the earthquake area in the next several days and to staff them with 400 to 500 workers from various agencies.federal officials are promising to move rapidly with federal highway aid to rebuild the area's severely damaged road system.
The account currently has $220 million.though federal law dictates that only $100 million can be disbursed from that fund in any one state per disaster, administration officials expect Congress to move in to authorize spending more now in California.
And administration officials expect Congress to move in to authorize spending more now in California.federal law dictates that only $100 million can be disbursed from that fund in any one state per disaster.
To get that money, states must go through an elaborate approval process.officials expect red tape to be cut this time.
but officials expect red tape to be cut this time.Keith Mulrooney, special assistant to Federal Highway Administrator Thomas Larson said that after the 1971 San Fernando earthquake in Southern California, the state set tougher standards for bridges, and with federal aid, began a program to retrofit highways and bridges for earthquake hazards.
The first phase of the program has been completed.two other phases are continuing.
FARMERS REAP abundant crops.how much will shoppers benefit.
The harvest arrives in plenty after last year's drought-ravaged effort.prices paid to farmers for the commodities plummet 20% to 33%.
As a result, prices paid to farmers for the commodities, which are used in products as diverse as bubble gum and chicken feed, plummet 20% to 33%.don't expect too much in the way of price breaks soon at the supermarket.
Beef prices could drop in earnest this winter.ranchers expand herds.
Lower feed prices may help animals eat more cheaply.humans have to factor in an expensive middleman: the processor.
it usually does so after only a few tries.IN VITRO fertilization works.
Costly infertility problems and procedures proliferate.aging baby boomers and others decide to have children -- now.
that one in six couples experiences infertility.in 1987, Americans spent about $1 billion to fight the problem.
Only about five states now offer some form of insurance coverage.more are expected.
that when to stop has become a difficult question.technology offers "almost endless hope.
Detroit Edison, the plan pioneer, generated $54,000 in matching funds this year, up from $39,000 in 1988.the utility may not continue next year.
Blunt Ellis & Loewi estimates direct mail catalog sales rose to $12 billion last year.while it's too soon to tell how sales will fare in the important 1989 Christmas season, some companies take steps to ease the usual 11th-hour crush.
And some companies take steps to ease the usual 11th-hour crush.it's too soon to tell how sales will fare in the important 1989 Christmas season.
to deliver goods before Christmas.ordered by Dec. 20.
Spiegel promises a "Guaranteed Christmas," with a pledge to deliver goods before Christmas if ordered by Dec. 20.for an extra $6, Land's End will deliver orders within two days.
part of the reason catalog sales grow in popularity is.consumers have more money but less time to spend it.
Four years ago, Pittsburgh was designated the most-livable U.S. city by Rand McNally's Places Rated Almanac.the honor did wonders to improve Pittsburgh's soot-stained image.
Four years ago, Pittsburgh was designated the most-livable U.S. city by Rand McNally's Places Rated Almanac, and the honor did wonders to improve Pittsburgh's soot-stained image.Yuba City, Calif. ranked dead last among 329 metro areas.
Four years ago, Pittsburgh was designated the most-livable U.S. city by Rand McNally's Places Rated Almanac, and the honor did wonders to improve Pittsburgh's soot-stained image.Yuba City, Calif. ranked dead last among 329 metro areas.
you're always Miss America.you're Miss America.
The new edition lists the top 10 metropolitan areas as Anaheim-Santa Ana, Calif.; Boston; Louisville, Ky.; Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y.; New York; Pittsburgh; San Diego; San Francisco; Seattle; and Washington..Mr. Savageau says earthquake or not, San Francisco makes the list.attention also rivets on who finishes last, and Pine Bluff, Ark. -- which finished third to last in 1981 and second to last in 1985 -- is certainly in the running.
The new edition lists the top 10 metropolitan areas as Anaheim-Santa Ana, Calif.; Boston; Louisville, Ky.; Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y.; New York; Pittsburgh; San Diego; San Francisco; Seattle; and Washington.But attention rivets on who finishes last, and Pine Bluff, Ark. -- which finished third to last in 1981 and second to last in 1985 -- is certainly in the running.
But attention also rivets on who finishes last.Pine Bluff, Ark. -- which finished third to last in 1981 and second to last in 1985 -- is certainly in the running.
Northrop Corp. 's third-quarter net income fell 25% to $21.5 million, or 46 cents a share.General Dynamics Corp. reported nearly flat earnings of $76.5 million, or $1.83 a share.
Los Angeles-based Northrop recorded an 8.2% decline in sales.B-2 Stealth bomber research-and-development revenue continued to ebb and high costs on some other programs cut into profit.
as B-2 Stealth bomber research-and-development revenue continued to ebb.high costs on some other programs cut into profit.
sales fell because of the decline in B-2 development dollars from the government as the plane continues its initial production stage.and fewer F/A-18 fighter sections are being produced in its subcontract work with prime contractor McDonnell Douglas Corp.
earnings were hurt by excessive costs on a number of such contracts won years ago.Northrop's interest expense soared to $35 million from $17 million a year ago.
debt remained at the $1.22 billion that has prevailed since early 1989.that compared with $911 million at Sept. 30, 1988.
At General Dynamics, factors reducing earnings in the military aircraft segment included higher levels of cost-sharing in development of the Advanced Tactical Fighter, and the high cost of an advanced version of the F-16 fighter.F-16 deliveries have fallen "slightly behind schedule.
F-16 deliveries also have fallen "slightly behind schedule.a return to the previous schedule is expected in 1990.
In the first half, Lotus struggled to keep market share with costly promotions.customers awaited the launch of 1-2-3 Release 3, the upgraded spreadsheet software.
Lotus had upgrade revenue of about $22 million in the quarter, twice what he had expected.unit shipments of 1-2-3 in all its forms were about 315,000, up 7% from 1988's quarterly average.
a spot check of computer makers turned up little, if any, potentially lingering damage to facilities or fabrication equipment.details were sketchy in the aftermath of the violent earthquake that shook the high-tech corridor along with the rest of the San Francisco Bay area.
Intel Corp., Advanced Micro Devices Inc. and National Semiconductor Corp. were all up and running yesterday.many workers were forced to stay home because of damaged roadways.
It's not the end of the world.you shake them up a little bit.
Other companies, including International Business Machines Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co., completely idled their operations because of Tuesday evening's temblor, which registered 6.9 on the Richter scale.many were confident that "in a day or two, everything should be back to normal," according to a spokeswoman for the Semiconductor Industry Association, based in Cupertino.
Still, many were confident that "in a day or two, everything should be back to normal," according to a spokeswoman for the Semiconductor Industry Association, based in Cupertino.IBM said it anticipates returning to a normal work schedule by the weekend at its San Jose plant.
that some 18,000 Valley employees have been called back to work today.things are a big mess.
Apple Computer added that it was being "cautiously optimistic," despite not yet closely eyeballing all of its 50 buildings in the region.Sun Microsystems Inc. and Tandem Computers Inc signaled that they should recover quickly.
Still, many were confident that "in a day or two, everything should be back to normal," according to a spokeswoman for the Semiconductor Industry Association, based in Cupertino.For many companies, of course, there is a slew of nagging problems to grapple with, some of which have the potential to become quite serious.
For many companies, of course, there is still a slew of nagging problems to grapple with, some of which have the potential to become quite serious.the Sunnyvale chip maker is worried about blackouts.
For many companies, of course, there is still a slew of nagging problems to grapple with, some of which have the potential to become quite serious.given what might have happened to the fragile parts that are at the heart of the microelectronics business, the bulk of Valley companies seemed to be just about shouting hosannas.
to be newer.and in step with the latest safety codes.
For one thing, buildings there tend to be newer and, thus, in step with the latest safety codes.the soil in the Valley is solid, unlike the landfill of San Francisco's downtown Marina District, which was hit with fires and vast destruction.
For one thing, buildings there tend to be newer and, thus, in step with the latest safety codes..Also, the soil in the Valley is solid, unlike the landfill of San Francisco's downtown Marina District, which was hit with fires and vast destruction.some microelectronics companies said they were prepared for tremulous conditions like Tuesday's.
Intel said that over the past decade, it has installed computer sensors and shutoff valves, sensitive to the shake of an earthquake, in the pipes that snake through its plants.Like other large Valley companies, Intel noted that it has factories in several parts of the nation, so that a breakdown at one location shouldn't leave customers in a total pinch.
that it has factories in several parts of the nation.a breakdown at one location shouldn't leave customers in a total pinch.
to dial Digital automatically.trouble arises.
to dial Digital automatically.They run remotely controlled self-diagnostic programs.
Digital Equipment has set up disaster-recovery response centers in Dallas, Atlanta and Colorado Springs, Colo.Digital said it has dispatched teams of technicians to California.
a spot check of computer makers turned up little, if any, potentially lingering damage to facilities or fabrication equipment.they, too, fared as well as could be expected.
a spot check of computer makers turned up little, if any, potentially lingering damage to facilities or fabrication equipment.they, too, fared as well as could be expected.
At Lockheed Corp. 's missiles and space systems group in Sunnyvale, about 40 miles south of San Francisco, workers were asked to head to work yesterday.it was realized that "there were no show-stoppers" in the 150-plus buildings on its one-square-mile campus.
Several engineering and research offices needed closer scrutiny to make sure they weren't in danger of crumbling.the bulk of the place is in pretty good shape.
One of Lockheed's most lucrative sectors the missiles and space group is the prime Pentagon contractor on the Trident II ballistic missile.It generates pieces of the missile shield called the Strategic Defense Initiative.
Michael Maynard offered the world a faster way to break eggs..As thanks, the egg industry tried to break him.the egg producers have done a pretty good job.
Mr. Maynard isn't the first entrepreneur to bump up against entrenched interests.his case is notable both for the scale of the fight and for what it tells about the pitfalls of marketing a new product.
Now one might ask why people who sell eggs would fight someone who is trying to make it easier to crack them.that products ranging from egg bread to eclairs lose some zip when the eggs come in 30-pound cans instead of shells.
that products ranging from egg bread to eclairs lose some zip.the eggs come in 30-pound cans instead of shells.
that products ranging from egg bread to eclairs lose some zip when the eggs come in 30-pound cans instead of shells.for companies that use hundreds of eggs a day, breaking them by hand can get, well, out of hand.
a big egg user can recover the Egg King's $3,390 cost in a few months.fresh eggs are less expensive than processed ones.
Such centrifugal egg breakers have been around since the 1890s.when Mr. Maynard came forward with his machine in the early 1970s nobody else was offering them in the U.S.
But nobody else was offering them in the U.S.Mr. Maynard came forward with his machine in the early 1970s.
Hens sometimes pass salmonella to the eggs.it can also be found on unclean shells.
Hens sometimes pass salmonella to the eggs.and it can be found on unclean shells.
Hens sometimes pass salmonella to the eggs, and it can also be found on unclean shells.any machine that breaks large amounts of eggs at once has the potential to spread salmonella if a bad egg gets in with the good ones.
to spread salmonella.a bad egg gets in with the good ones.
With nearly 4,000 machines in use, there have been no salmonella problems.instructions were followed.
the handful of salmonella cases involving products that may have used eggs broken by an Egg King stemmed from a failure to adequately cook the products.that's no more a reason for banning Egg Kings than bad drivers are a reason for banning cars.
the machine is "a health hazard.that Mr. Maynard is trying "to make a fast buck at the expense of the nation's egg producers.
The UEP declines to comment.the group's attorney, Alfred Frawley, says the group's actions are motivated solely by "health concerns.
this branch got the other branch to rescind its approval.receiving complaints from egg producers.
the other branch to rescind its approval.limiting the machine's potential market to bakeries and restaurants and other establishments that aren't regulated by the USDA.
After receiving complaints from egg producers.The egg producers lobbied the Food and Drug Administration.
The egg producers also lobbied the Food and Drug Administration.the FDA in a 1985 letter to the United Egg Producers said that there was "little likelihood" of a health problem as long as instructions were followed.
that there was "little likelihood" of a health problem.instructions were followed.
But the FDA in a 1985 letter to the United Egg Producers said that there was "little likelihood" of a health problem as long as instructions were followed.the producers went to Capitol Hill.
Mr. Maynard, whose company at the time was based in Santa Ana, Calif., enlisted his local congressman.the battle was joined.
Mr. Maynard's forces finally defeated the measure.it took a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives to do it.
though it took a vote on the floor of the House of Representatives to do it.opponents managed to get a congressional hearing to examine what one congressman called an "unscrupulous" method for breaking eggs.
Now he has moved to Oklahoma where costs are lower, and started a new company, Adsi Inc., to market his machine.so far, the change of scenery hasn't ended his string of bad breaks.
Michelle Pfeiffer can't chew gum and sing at the same time.on the evidence of "The Fabulous Baker Boys," that may be the only thing she can't do.
But on the evidence of "The Fabulous Baker Boys," that may be the only thing she can't do.she's acting in movies.
like she's hearing the way it should sound inside her head.she's concentrating on matching that internal tone.
Her Susie Diamond handles a song the way the greats do, like she's hearing the way it should sound inside her head and she's concentrating on matching that internal tone.her intensity stops and starts with the music.
she prepares for a song by removing the wad of gum from her mouth, and indicates that she's finished by sticking the gum back in.she isn't performing for an audience.
Like almost everything in this wonderfully romantic and edgy movie, Ms. Pfeiffer's Susie seems like someone you've seen before, in numerous show-biz stories.nothing about "Baker Boys," and certainly nothing about Ms. Pfeiffer, really is like something from the video vault.
who doesn't dismiss dreams.who also has enough experience to see his limits.
who doesn't dismiss dreams.but who has enough experience to see his limits.
Both movies are infused with the nostalgic sensibility of someone much older, someone who doesn't dismiss dreams, but who also has enough experience to see his limits.Mr. Kloves directs his own material without sentimentality and at its own eccentric pace.
Mr. Ballhaus has developed a distinctively fluid style.working for years with Werner Rainer Fassbinder, the late German director, and more recently with Martin Scorsese ("After Hours," "The Color of Money," "The Last Temptation of Christ").
Much of the picture's sensuality emerges from cinematographer Michael Ballhaus's slyly seductive lens work.Dave Grusin's witty score embraces the banal requirements of banquet-hall musicianship ("Feelings" is a must) without condescension.
that it's much more natural to end up looking like a stiff.it's quite possible that the terrific play between the brothers isn't natural at all, that Jeff and Beau had to work like crazy to make their brotherly love -- and resentment and frustration and rage -- seem so very real.
the Baker brothers are doing what they've done for 15 years professionally, and twice as long as that for themselves: They're playing proficient piano, face-to-face, on twin pianos.the movie opens.
They're small time in the small time-hotels (not the best ones) and restaurants in Seattle.they don't disparage their audiences by disparaging their act.
They wear tuxedos most nights.circumstances (a regular gig at a "tropical" lounge, for example) require them to wear special costumes, like Hawaiian shirts.
than he would have to.he worked for a big corporation.
who fancies himself the rebellious artist; he lives in a loft with his sick dog and the occasional visit from the little girl upstairs, who climbs down the fire escape.Jack's the one who can remember every dive they ever played, and when, and he dutifully shows up for work night after night.
Yet Jack's the one who can remember every dive they ever played, and when.he dutifully shows up for work night after night.
which she sings.prancing around in a little cotton candy pink angora sweater that couldn't be more perfect.
These include Jennifer Tilly's audition to be the Baker Boys' girl singer Here she delivers, especially during her enthusiastically awful rendition of the "Candy Man," which she sings while prancing around in a little cotton candy pink angora sweater that couldn't be more perfect. (It matches her voice.).Ms. Pfeiffer's particular version of "Making Whoopee" -- and the way Mr. Ballhaus photographs her, from the tips of her red high heels right up her clingy red velvet dress -- might make you think of Marilyn Monroe if Ms. Pfeiffer hadn't gone and become a star in her own right.
And Ms. Pfeiffer's particular version of "Making Whoopee" -- and the way Mr. Ballhaus photographs her, from the tips of her red high heels right up her clingy red velvet dress -- might make you think of Marilyn Monroe.Ms. Pfeiffer hadn't gone and become a star in her own right.
take a look at "Grease 2.you'd like to see the first time Michelle Pfeiffer sang on screen.
If you'd like to see the first time Michelle Pfeiffer sang on screen.you have a lot of patience.
Control Data has been seeking a buyer for the facility.it folded its ETA Systems Inc. supercomputer unit this past April.
Bank Building & Equipment Corp. of America increased its projections of the negative fiscal impact, and said it was exploring the company's sale.which said accounting discrepancies its auditors uncovered would hurt earnings and require restatement of earlier results.
Company auditors are continuing their review.final restated figures aren't yet available.
Bank Building, which expects to report a fourth-quarter loss, said it engaged advisers to "explore financial alternatives for the company including the possible sale of the company or one or more of its units.Bank Building said the restatement is necessitated by "certain errors in recording receivables and payables" at its Loughman Cabinet division.
I don't want to feel guilty representing my constituents.if I think that some people {on HUD Secretary Jack Kemp's} staff are off base in terms in which they're evaluating certain things affecting my hometown, I have to tell you something -- I'm not going to take it.
I'm not going to take it.that some people {on HUD Secretary Jack Kemp's} staff are off base in terms in which they're evaluating certain things affecting my hometown.
I think that I'm elected to represent the people that sent me here.one of our charges is to be an ombudsman for our area.
And one of our charges is to be an ombudsman for our area.if we're not ombudsman for our area, we ought to be thrown out of office.
And we ought to be thrown out of office.we're not ombudsman for our area.
And if we're not ombudsman for our area, we ought to be thrown out of office.if we're asking for something unreasonable or unethical and so on, then that's a whole different story.
we're asking for something unreasonable or unethical and so on.On the other hand that's a whole different story.
On the other hand, if we're asking for something unreasonable or unethical and so on, then that's a whole different story.if I feel that there are situations where I'm trying to get housing for our area and I have to feel that I can't even ask a question, I've got to tell you, I think that's outrageous.
that's outrageous.I feel that there are situations where I'm trying to get housing for our area and I have to feel that I can't even ask a question.
if I feel that there are situations where I'm trying to get housing for our area.I have to feel that I can't even ask a question.
Capcom Futures said in a statement that the Merc charges were "technical in nature" and that "no customers were hurt" as a result of the violations cited by the Merc.neither admitting nor denying the Merc charges.
while admitting.denying the Merc charges.
that the Merc charges were "technical in nature.that "no customers were hurt" as a result of the violations cited by the Merc.
Money-market mutual fund assets grew at nearly three times their usual rate in the latest week.investors opted for safety instead of the stock market.
Most short-term certificates of deposit are yielding about 8% or less at major banks.the yields on Treasury bills sold at Monday's auction fell to 7.61% for three months and 7.82% for six months.
you don't start getting proceeds for five to seven days.you're selling equities.
Money-fund yields tend to lag interestrate trends.portfolio managers adjust the maturities of their investments -- short-term Treasury securities, commercial paper and the like -- to capture the highest yields.
Maturities usually are shorter.rates are rising.
and longer.they are falling.
The average 30-day simple yield was 8.26%, compared with 8.27% the week before.the 30-day compound yield slid to 8.60% from 8.61%.
The complex restructuring transforms London-based WCRS from primarily a creator of advertising into one of Europe's largest buyers of advertising time and space.It creates a newly merged world-wide ad agency controlled by Eurocom and headed jointly by New York ad man Jerry Della Femina and two top WCRS executives.
to become one of the world's 10 largest agencies.attracting more multinational clients than the agencies were able to attract alone.
The complex restructuring transforms London-based WCRS from primarily a creator of advertising into one of Europe's largest buyers of advertising time and space.For Eurocom the move gives it a strong U.S. foothold in Della Femina, and more than quadruples the size of its ad agency business world-wide.
The complex restructuring transforms London-based WCRS from primarily a creator of advertising into one of Europe's largest buyers of advertising time and space.For Eurocom the move gives it a strong U.S. foothold in Della Femina, and more than quadruples the size of its ad agency business world-wide.
For Eurocom, meanwhile, the move gives it a strong U.S. foothold in Della Femina, and more than quadruples the size of its ad agency business world-wide.It gives the outspoken Mr. Della Femina an international platform that he most certainly won't be loath to use.
According to terms, WCRS will pay 2.02 billion French francs ($318.6 million) for the 50% it doesn't already own of Carat Holding S.A., one of Europe's largest media buyers.Eurocom, which had held 20% of WCRS's ad unit, will pay #43.5 million ($68.5 million) to raise its stake to 60%.
According to terms, WCRS will pay 2.02 billion French francs ($318.6 million) for the 50% it doesn't already own of Carat Holding S.A., one of Europe's largest media buyers.Eurocom, which had held 20% of WCRS's ad unit, will pay #43.5 million ($68.5 million) to raise its stake to 60%.
Meanwhile, Eurocom will pay #43.5 million ($68.5 million) to raise its stake to 60%.That price covers Eurocom raising to 60% its 51% stake in Europe's Belier Group, a joint venture ad agency network it owns with WCRS.
That price also covers Eurocom raising to 60% its 51% stake in Europe's Belier Group, a joint venture ad agency network it owns with WCRS.Eurocom will have the right to buy the remaining 40% of the merged ad agency group in six years.
The new agency group is already in discussions about a possible purchase in Spain.it also plans to make acquisitions in Scandinavia, Germany and elsewhere.
The new agency group is already in discussions about a possible purchase in Spain.it plans to make acquisitions in Scandinavia, Germany and elsewhere.
it did so in order to attract larger clients, especially packaged-goods companies.WCRS created Della Femina McNamee out of the merger of three smaller agency units in 1988.
Since then, Della Femina won Pan Am as an international client.and does work for a few packaged-goods clients, including Dow Chemical Co. 's Saran Wrap.
Since then, Della Femina won Pan Am as an international client and also does work for a few packaged-goods clients, including Dow Chemical Co. 's Saran Wrap.major packaged-goods players of the world -- such as Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive and Unilever -- have steadfastly eluded the agency.
Cracking the top 10 within three years will be difficult at best.the restructuring could create one of the most powerful alliances between advertising and media-buying firms that Europe has seen.
Carat will receive its WCRS stake as part of payment for the 50% Carat stake that WCRS is buying.it expects to pay about #32 million for its WCRS stake.
They and other top executives signed long-term employment contracts.Mr. Della Femina will receive an additional multimillion-dollar sum, which some industry executives pegged at about $10 million.
WCRS Group, for its part, will now be able to follow its longstanding plan of becoming "a holding company for a series of media-related businesses.For Carat the alliance with Eurocom and WCRS is intended to strengthen its own push outside France.
By buying the space in bulk, they obtain discounts as high as 50%, which they can pass on to customers.They have won the French space-buying business of such advertising giants as Coca-Cola Co., Fiat S.p..A., Gillette and Kodak.
They thus have won the French space-buying business of such advertising giants as Coca-Cola Co., Fiat S.p..A., Gillette and Kodak.now, other agencies are getting into the business with their own competing media-buying groups.
But now, other agencies are getting into the business with their own competing media-buying groups.Carat wants to expand to the rest of Europe.
it plans an issue of Euroconvertible preferred shares.the market settles down.
To help finance the Carat purchase it plans an issue of Euroconvertible preferred shares once the market settles down.that "in the light of the current uncertainty in the equity markets," it has arranged medium-term debt financing.
the quake damaged the offices of J. Walter Thompson, Chiat/Day/Mojo and DDB Needham, among others.no agencies reported injuries to employees.
Staffers at Thompson watched pictures drop from the walls.and felt the skyscraper sway seven to eight feet, according to a spokeswoman.
Chesebrough-Pond's Inc., Greenwich, Conn., awarded its Faberge hair care accounts to J. Walter Thompson, New York.The accounts were handled at Bozell, New York.
who returns to Bozell.being vice president of media at MGM.
The agency's three California offices will now be called AC&R Advertising to match the name of its New York office.called AC&R/CCL Advertising.
The deportation of more than 315,000 men, women and children by the Bulgarian regime adds up to one of the largest migrations seen in the postwar years.some people are advancing a chilling casuistry: that what we are seeing is somehow the understandable result of the historical sins committed by the Turks in the 16th century.
that what we are seeing is somehow the understandable result of the historical sins committed by the Turks in the 16th century.Today's Turks in Bulgaria deserve what is coming to them four centuries later.
the Senate Judiciary Committee is getting into the act.this weren't enough.
There can be no quibbling that the Armenians endured terrible suffering.one has to wonder what possible good such a resolution will achieve.
It puts great strain on a longstanding U.S. friendship with Turkey, a country that has been one of America's strongest allies in NATO.The resolution comes at a time when Turkey has been seeking help from the United States in resolving its Bulgarian emigration controversy and pursuing democratic reforms that may lead to membership in the European Community.
that surfaced.Turkey asked for assistance in dealing with its Bulgarian emigration crisis.
that the old standby of retribution for treatment at the hands of the Ottoman Empire comes to the fore.these rationalizations fall on deaf ears.
Surely, the past suffering of any people at any time cannot be simply filed away and forgotten.what the Senate Judiciary Committee has done in supporting the strongly worded Armenian resolution achieves no useful end.
Bulgaria's government has been behaving beyond the pale for months.the U.S. does its values no credit by ignoring that while casting its votes into the past.
by ignoring that.casting its votes into the past.
take it away from this discredited federal department.that takes money.
If that takes money, take it away from this discredited federal department.of course the Democrats pillorying HUD in hearings and in the press have no such solution in mind.
But of course the Democrats pillorying HUD in hearings and in the press have no such solution in mind.they're scrambling to protect the very programs at the heart of the HUD scandal.
No doubt many of his ideas are worthy.ultimately he is proposing to make fundamentally flawed programs work slightly more fairly and efficiently.
Last week, Secretary Kemp ran into a buzzsaw of criticism from House Banking Committee members.They were appalled that he wanted to target more of the $3 billion Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program to low-income projects and zero out the notorious "discretionary" funds that have allowed HUD officials to steer contracts to political cronies.
These development grants mainly enrich developers who want to put up shopping centers and parking garages.They give those in Congress political credit for bringing home the pork.
They also give those in Congress political credit for bringing home the pork.so they are popular with such Members as Mary Rose Oakar.
They also give those in Congress political credit for bringing home the pork.and they are popular with such Members as Mary Rose Oakar.
Rep. Oakar, a Democrat from Cleveland, wants a $6.9 million grant.Cleveland can build an 18-story Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
HUD says the project doesn't qualify.Mr. Kemp says that rock 'n' roll musicians and the music industry ought to put up the money.
that there's something wrong.a congressman calls about a project in his district.
what the Republican consultants have been doing with HUD.what these gentleladies and gentlemen want to do with HUD.
Some HUD money actually does trickle down to the poor.zeroing out housing middlemen would free up more money for public housing tenants to manage and even own their units.
Decent life in the inner cities won't be restored.the government reclaims the streets from the drug gangs.
that history is, so to speak, at an end.the course of human progress has now culminated in the glorious full stop of American civilization.
His observations were taken seriously.we are, in reality, witnessing the continuing decline of the political economy of capitalism: not so much the end of history but the history of the end.
Builders get away with using sand and financiers junk.society decides it's okay, necessary even, to look the other way.
Builders get away with using sand and financiers junk when society decides it's okay, necessary even, to look the other way.by the early 1980s U.S. capitalists had ample reason to welcome junk bonds, to look the other way.
By that time they found extremely low profit rates from non-financial corporate investment.Government statistics show that the profit rate -- net pretax profits divided by capital stock -- peaked in 1965 at 17.2%.
That same calculation saw profit rates fall to 4.6% in the recession year 1982.the supposed miracle that followed has seen the profit rate rise only to 8.1% in 1986 and 8% in 1987.
in the number arrived at.you divide the market value of firms by the replacement costs of their assets, the famous Q ratio associated with Prof..James Tobin.
In theory, the value attached to a firm by the market and the cost of replacing its assets should be the same.of course the market could decide that the firm's capital stock -- its assets -- means nothing if the firm is not producing profits.
that the firm's capital stock -- its assets -- means nothing.the firm is not producing profits.
But of course the market could decide that the firm's capital stock -- its assets -- means nothing if the firm is not producing profits.This is what the market decided.
that an alert entrepreneur won't look the other way.it takes only 43 cents to buy a dollar's worth of a firm's capital stock.
that the underlying profitability rate will go up.the capital assets he bought on the cheap will soon be producing profits, thus restoring the market's faith in them.
that the underlying profitability rate will go up and the capital assets he bought on the cheap will soon be producing profits.restoring the market's faith in them.
From the history of capitalism we can take it as a sound bet that if it takes only 43 cents to buy a dollar's worth of a firm's capital stock, an alert entrepreneur won't look the other way.here is where the entrepreneur made a very risky bet, and where society was maybe foolish to look the other way.
where the entrepreneur made a very risky bet.where society was maybe foolish to look the other way.
The profit rate is still low.the Q ratio was only 65% in 1987 and 68.9% in 1988.
The mounting risks did not go unobserved, even in the mid-1980s.there were enough promoters announcing the end of history (in this case suspension of normal laws of economic gravity) for society to continue shielding its eyes.
Mainstream economists and commentators, craning their necks up at the great pyramids of junk financing, swiveling their heads to watch the avalanche of leveraged buy-outs, claimed the end result would be a leaner, meaner corporate America, with soaring productivity and profits and the weaker gone to the wall.this is not where the rewards of junk financing were found.
Profit rates after the great merger wave are no higher.now we have an extremely high-interest burden relative to cash flow.
From its peak in 1972 of $198.41, the average American weekly wage had fallen to $169.28 in 1987 -- both figures being expressed in 1977 dollars.after the glory boom of the Reagan years, wages had sunk from the post World War II peak by 16% as capitalists, helped by the government, turned down the screws or went offshore.
In other words, after the glory boom of the Reagan years, wages had sunk from the post World War II peak by 16%.capitalists turned down the screws or went offshore.
In other words, after the glory boom of the Reagan years, wages had sunk from the post World War II peak by 16% as capitalists, helped by the government, turned down the screws or went offshore.there are signs now -- the strikes by miners, Boeing workers, telephone workers, etc. -- that this attack on wages is being more fiercely resisted.
the London Times forbade my father to use.he was reporting the Wall Street crash in 1929.
Governments have become sophisticated in handling moments of panic (a word the London Times forbade my father to use when he was reporting the Wall Street crash in 1929).sophistication has its limits.
Capitalism may now be engineered to withstand sudden shocks.there are fault lines -- the crisis in profits, the assault on wages, the structural inequity of the system -- that make fools of those who claim that the future is here and that history is over.
that the future is here.that history is over.
Many airlines are talking about cargo ventures.there have been rumors about such a tie between JAL and European airlines.
he couldn't confirm or deny the latest Japanese report.he said JAL is talking to Lufthansa and Air France about some sort of cargo venture.
their clout would be considerable.the three companies pool their air-freight businesses.
Other airlines would have access to the system.negotiations with partners were already under way.
Several airlines, including Lufthansa, JAL and Cathay Pacific Airways, are working on a so-called global cargo system and are trying to attract other carriers to join.JAL has signaled it is looking for toeholds in Europe before the end of 1992.
to lease crews and planes from British Airways.it could funnel its passengers from London to other European destinations.
British Airways said it hasn't received a proposal from JAL.last week there were air-traffic negotiations between the U.K. and Japan, a likely first step to any commercial agreement between JAL and British Airways or another U.K. carrier.
The decision was made late yesterday.the Pacific exchange's options floor was shut down as a result of Tuesday's earthquake.
carpenters quickly erected a new options floor to accomodate 40 traders from the Pacific exchange.specialists on the exchanges agreed to provide backup capital for market-making in Pacific exchange options traded on the exchanges.
Investors were concerned that they might be unable to exercise options that expire tomorrow.professionals said throughout the day that the shutdown wouldn't be a cause for alarm even if it were to persist for several days.
that the shutdown wouldn't be a cause for alarm.it were to persist for several days.
that they still have the ability to exercise their options.they are guaranteed by the Options Clearing Corp.
that they still have the ability to exercise their options.The SEC reassigned trading in the options to allow investors to do more than simply exercise the options.
orders were being routed and executed in Los Angeles.the exchange's equities floor in San Francisco remained open on a limited basis.
Workers could dial out.they couldn't receive telephone calls.
business is as usual.the exchange's computer was rerouting orders to the exchange's trading operations in Los Angeles.
the other can take over.one city is down.
While the exchange's equities floor in San Francisco remained open on a limited basis, orders were being routed and executed in Los Angeles.the brokerage firms in San Francisco were trying to cope.
While the exchange's equities floor in San Francisco remained open on a limited basis, orders were being routed and executed in Los Angeles.the brokerage firms in San Francisco were trying to cope.
Traders worked with the help of sunlight streaming through windows, despite large cracks in the walls and a lack of incoming phone calls.most of the telecommunications equipment was out.
At Kidder, Peabody & Co. 's Sacramento branch, Manager Janet White received calls yesterday morning from workers in San Francisco who offered to work in Sacramento.she discovered that Quotron Systems Inc. 's Sacramento lines were down.
that Quotron Systems Inc. 's Sacramento lines were down.they are normally tied in through a system that goes through San Francisco.
that Quotron Systems Inc. 's Sacramento lines were down.the Kidder brokers had to call other company offices to get quotes on stocks.
The company dispatched as many as 200 people in the San Francisco area to do the work.most of the rerouting was done by computer.
Service appeared to be down throughout the financial district in downtown San Francisco.just parts of Oakland and San Jose were knocked out.
Service appeared to be down throughout the financial district in downtown San Francisco, while just parts of Oakland and San Jose were knocked out.service was being restored to outlying San Francisco areas.
that it guarantees the Pacific exchange options.The firm will permit its members and the public "to exercise their put and call options contracts traded on the Pacific exchange" even if the exchange is closed.
its members and the public "to exercise their put and call options contracts traded on the Pacific exchange.the exchange is closed.
Put options give holders the right, but not the obligation, to sell a financial instrument at a specified price.call options give holders the right, but not the obligation, to buy a financial instrument at a specified price.
Investors and traders in Pacific exchange options "are protected to the extent that they can convert their put and call options into the underlying instrument.We are seeing such exercises today.
IBM's shares have slipped steadily from its 52-week high of $130.875.the stock market has generally done well this year.
The announcement came.the market's close.
The company has spent some $5 billion over the past 3 1/2 years to buy back 42 million common shares, or roughly 7% of those outstanding.despite IBM's well-publicized recent problems, the computer giant still generates enormous amounts of cash.
The company has spent some $5 billion over the past 3 1/2 years to buy back 42 million common shares, or roughly 7% of those outstanding..In addition, despite IBM's well-publicized recent problems, the computer giant still generates enormous amounts of cash..As of the end of the second quarter, it had $4.47 billion of cash and marketable securities on hand.some securities analysts had predicted in recent days that IBM would authorize additional purchases.
that it thought the purchases were a good way to improve such financial measurements as per-share earnings and return on equity.IBM didn't view its spending as necessarily a way to support the stock.
At yesterday's closing price, $1 billion would buy back about 10 million shares, or less than 2% of the roughly 580 million outstanding.as of Sept. 30, the company still had authorization to buy $368 million of stock under a prior repurchase program.
In the short term, the move is likely to have little effect.Over the long term IBM's stock repurchases -- along with its hefty, $4.84-a-share annual dividend and generally loyal following among large institutional investors -- are providing a floor for the stock price.
it began faltering as early as January.IBM last year produced its first strong results in four years and was expected to continue to roll this year.
First, it had trouble manufacturing a chip for its mainframes, IBM's bread-and-butter business.it had a series of smaller glitches, including problems manufacturing certain personal computers and the delay in the announcement of some important workstations.
First, it had trouble manufacturing a chip for its mainframes, IBM's bread-and-butter business..Then it had a series of smaller glitches, including problems manufacturing certain personal computers and the delay in the announcement of some important workstations.IBM had to delay the introduction of some high-end disk drives, which account for 10% of its $60 billion of annual revenue.
None of the problems is necessarily fatal.they aren't all necessarily even related.
First, it had trouble manufacturing a chip for its mainframes, IBM's bread-and-butter business..Then it had a series of smaller glitches, including problems manufacturing certain personal computers and the delay in the announcement of some important workstations..Finally, IBM had to delay the introduction of some high-end disk drives, which account for 10% of its $60 billion of annual revenue.There are other factors at work that are outside IBM's control, such as currency exchange rates.
which reduces the value of overseas earnings and revenue.they are translated into dollars.
None of the problems is necessarily fatal, and they aren't all necessarily even related..There are also other factors at work that are outside IBM's control, such as currency exchange rates.investors will take some convincing before they get back into IBM's stock in a big way.
Still, investors will take some convincing.they get back into IBM's stock in a big way.
that even the big institutional investors are looking for a reason to avoid the stock these days.investors were looking for an excuse to buy IBM shares a year ago.
Wall Street thinks of everything in terms of money.such event-driven trading moves typically last only a few hours and are often made without full information.
some insurance stocks initially fell.this bullish theory surfaced.
some insurance stocks initially fell, indicating that investors thought the quake might cost insurers a lot of money.earthquake damage would slightly hurt fourth-quarter profit.
On the prospect for rebuilding northern California, investors bid up cement-makers Calmat Co., up $2.75 to $28.75, and Lone Star Industries Inc., up $1.75 to $29.25..Bridge and road builders had a field day, including Kasler Corp., up $2.125 to $9.875, Guy F. Atkinson Co., up 87.5 to $61.875, and Morrison Knudsen Corp., which reported higher third-quarter earnings yesterday, up $2.25 to $44.125..Fluor Corp., a construction engineering firm, gained 75 cents to $33.375.home-building stocks were a mixed bag.
Tosco Corp. jumped $1.125 to $20.125.Chevron Corp., despite a temporary pipeline shutdown, rose $1 to $65.
On the prospect for rebuilding northern California, investors bid up cement-makers Calmat Co., up $2.75 to $28.75, and Lone Star Industries Inc., up $1.75 to $29.25..Bridge and road builders had a field day, including Kasler Corp., up $2.125 to $9.875, Guy F. Atkinson Co., up 87.5 to $61.875, and Morrison Knudsen Corp., which reported higher third-quarter earnings yesterday, up $2.25 to $44.125..Fluor Corp., a construction engineering firm, gained 75 cents to $33.375..But home-building stocks were a mixed bag..Timber stocks got a big boost..Georgia Pacific Corp., up $1.25 to $58, and Maxxam Inc., up $3 to $43.75, both reported strong profits..Merrill Lynch & Co. touted Georgia-Pacific, Louisiana Pacific Corp. and Willamette Industries Inc. as the best post-quake plywood plays..Other gainers were companies with one or more undamaged California refineries..Tosco Corp. jumped $1.125 to $20.125 and Chevron Corp., despite a temporary pipeline shutdown, rose $1 to $65.shares of some big housing lenders got hit, on the likelihood that the lenders' collateral -- people's homes -- suffered physical damage and perhaps a loss in value.
On the prospect for rebuilding northern California, investors bid up cement-makers Calmat Co., up $2.75 to $28.75, and Lone Star Industries Inc., up $1.75 to $29.25..Bridge and road builders had a field day, including Kasler Corp., up $2.125 to $9.875, Guy F. Atkinson Co., up 87.5 to $61.875, and Morrison Knudsen Corp., which reported higher third-quarter earnings yesterday, up $2.25 to $44.125..Fluor Corp., a construction engineering firm, gained 75 cents to $33.375..But home-building stocks were a mixed bag..Timber stocks got a big boost..Georgia Pacific Corp., up $1.25 to $58, and Maxxam Inc., up $3 to $43.75, both reported strong profits..Merrill Lynch & Co. touted Georgia-Pacific, Louisiana Pacific Corp. and Willamette Industries Inc. as the best post-quake plywood plays..Other gainers were companies with one or more undamaged California refineries..Tosco Corp. jumped $1.125 to $20.125 and Chevron Corp., despite a temporary pipeline shutdown, rose $1 to $65.shares of some big housing lenders got hit, on the likelihood that the lenders' collateral -- people's homes -- suffered physical damage and perhaps a loss in value.
Wells Fargo & Co. fell 50 cents to $81.50.BankAmerica Corp. fell 50 cents to $31.875.
Wells Fargo & Co. fell 50 cents to $81.50, and BankAmerica Corp. fell 50 cents to $31.875.Some California thrift stocks fell, including Golden West Financial Corp. and H.F. Ahmanson & Co.
One of its power generators was damaged.there won't be any financial impact.
A computer failure delayed its earnings announcement.some investors think it might have extra costs to repair damaged telephone lines.
Petco Options, an options trading firm owned by the family of the deceased former Chicago Board of Trade chairman Ralph Peters, is getting out of the trade clearing, or processing and guaranteeing, business.sustaining a multimillion dollar loss Friday.
The owners of the company got a look at the potential risks in this business.after Monday they felt they didn't want to be exposed any more.
Over the weekend Fossett Corp., another options trading firm, transferred the clearing accounts of about 160 traders to First Options of Chicago, a unit of Continental Bank Corp.it couldn't meet regulatory capital requirements after Friday's market slide.
Prior to the introduction of financial futures in the late 1970s, most trading firms clustered around the LaSalle Street financial district here were family operations handed down from one generation to the next.Most were relatively undercapitalized compared with the size of most Wall Street securities firms.
Betty Lombardi is a mild-mannered homemaker and grandmother in rural Hunterdon County, N.J.put her behind a shopping cart and she turns ruthless.
But put her behind a shopping cart.she turns ruthless.
she'll cross Crest off her shopping list without a second thought.Colgate toothpaste offers a tempting money-saving coupon.
she dropped Pepperidge Farm and started buying brands free of such oils.she heard about the artery-clogging hazards of tropical oils in many cookies.
I always thought Pepperidge Farm was tasty and high quality.I don't want any of that oil for my grandkids.
it can't tell exactly how many customers it has lost.it hopes to remove the objectionable tropical oil from all its products by year end.
it has eroded during the 1980s.brand loyalty is far from dead.
More than half the users of 17 of the 25 products included in the survey said they're brand switchers.12% of consumers aren't brand loyal for any of the 25 product categories.
Only 2% are brand loyal in 16 to 20 of the categories.no one is loyal for more than 20 types of products.
Coke and Pepsi are all the same to me.I usually buy whichever brand of coffee happens to be on sale.
People often stay with a particular brand.they want to be associated with the image its advertising conveys.
Only 23% of trash-bag users in the Journal survey usually buy the same brand.just 29% of battery buyers stick to one brand.
Underwear scored a middling 36% in brand loyalty.that's actually quite high for such a mundane product.
Brand loyalty was stronger among older consumers in the Journal survey.Higher-income people tend to be more brand loyal these days.
that at least the product will be of acceptable quality.not always the best value for the money.
Higher-income people also tend to be more brand loyal these days.the bottom end of the market is becoming less loyal.
Higher-income people also tend to be more brand loyal these days.the bottom end of the market is becoming less loyal.
How those hotly pursued but highly unpredictable baby boomers will behave.they move into middle age.
They grew up with more brand choices than any generation and have shown less allegiance so far.now that they're settling down and raising families, might they also show more stability in their brand choices.
But might they also show more stability in their brand choices.they're settling down and raising families.
But now that they're settling down and raising families.might they show more stability in their brand choices.
Earlier generations were brand loyal across categories.boomers tend to be brand loyal in categories like running shoes and bottled water, but less so in others like toilet paper and appliances.
consumers today don't buy products capriciously, either.not as brand loyal as in the past.
While not as brand loyal as in the past, consumers today don't buy products capriciously, either.they tend to have a set of two or three favorites.
you can be sure a new and improved Huggies won't be far behind.a more absorbent Pampers hits the market.
consumers simplify the complexity by telling themselves, 'All brands are the same so what difference does it make which I buy.there's a clutter of brands.
All brands are the same.what difference does it make which I buy.
Too often, advertising imagery hasn't done a good job of forging a special emotional bond between a brand and the consumer.given such strong brand disloyalty, some marketers are putting renewed emphasis on image advertising.
But given such strong brand disloyalty, some marketers are putting renewed emphasis on image advertising.A small but growing number of companies are trying to instill more fervent brand loyalty through such personalized direct-marketing ploys as catalogs, magazines and membership clubs for brand users.
they went overboard in shifting money from advertising to coupons, refunds and other sales incentives.discount promotions are essential for most brands.
Some people argue that strong brands can afford to stop advertising for a time because of the residual impact of hundreds of millions of dollars spent on advertising through the years.most companies are too afraid to take that chance.
Every time 24 hours pass without any advertising reinforcement, brand loyalty will diminish ever so slightly -- even for a powerful brand like Budweiser.what happened to Maxwell House coffee.
The Kraft General Foods brand stopped advertising for about a year in 1987 and gave up several market share points and its leadership position in the coffee business.since returning to advertising, Maxwell House has regained the lost share and is running neck and neck with archrival Folgers.
But Maxwell House has regained the lost share and is running neck and neck with archrival Folgers.returning to advertising.
we need advertising to maintain and strengthen it.brand loyalty is rather strong for coffee.
Our heavy users consume two to three cans of soup a week.we'd like to increase that.
Campbell Soup Co., for one, has concluded that it makes good sense to focus more on its most loyal customers than on people who buy competitive brands.Campbell is talking to its "brand enthusiasts," probing their psychological attachment to its soup.
than what insurers faced.Hurricane Hugo ripped through the Caribbean and the Carolinas last month.
Getting a grip on the extent of the damages is proving a far more difficult task than what insurers faced after Hurricane Hugo ripped through the Caribbean and the Carolinas last month.investors are betting that the financial and psychological impact of the earthquake, coming so soon after the hurricane, will help stem more than two years of intense price-cutting wars among business insurers.
Aetna, chartered three planes to fly claims adjusters into Sacramento and then planned for them to drive to the Bay area.commercial air travel is interrupted.
Aetna chartered three planes to fly claims adjusters into Sacramento.and planned for them to drive to the Bay area.
about 25% of its policyholders in California have also purchased earthquake insurance.about 23% of its personal property policyholders -- about 28% in the San Franciso area have earthquake coverage.
damage to residential property could total $500 million.only $100 million to $150 million is insured.
the Bay Bridge -- unlike some bridges -- has no earthquake coverage, either.the cost of repairing it probably would have to be paid out of state general operating funds.
the Bay Bridge -- unlike some bridges -- has no earthquake coverage, either.the bridge does have "loss of income" insurance to replace lost revenue if the operation of the bridge is interrupted for more than seven days.
to replace lost revenue.the operation of the bridge is interrupted for more than seven days.
to cause significant financial problems for the insurance industry as a whole.the total capital of the industry is likely to be higher at year end than it was at midyear.
Instead, even with the liabilities of two natural disasters in recent weeks the total capital of the industry is likely to be higher at year end than it was at midyear.the earthquake could contribute to a turnaround in the insurance cycle in a couple of ways.
Indeed, the earthquake could contribute to a turnaround in the insurance cycle in a couple of ways.insurers may seek to limit their future exposure to catastrophes by increasing the amount of reinsurance they buy..Such increased demand for reinsurance, along with the losses the reinsurers will bear from these two disasters, are likely to spur increases in reinsurance prices that will later be translated into an overall price rise.
Such increased demand for reinsurance, along with the losses the reinsurers will bear from these two disasters, are likely to spur increases in reinsurance prices.that will be translated into an overall price rise.
Earthquake-related claims aren't expected to cause significant financial problems for the insurance industry as a whole.a few individual companies, most likely smaller ones, could be devastated.
U.K. underwriters traditionally have a large reinsurance exposure to U.S. catastrophe coverage.it's unclear how much exposure the London market will face.
it reached a preliminary accord on the sale of its environmental consulting and services business for about $40 million and assumption of related debt.it is making progress in negotiating the buy-out of its design division by management.
it reached a preliminary accord on the sale of its environmental consulting and services business for about $40 million and assumption of related debt it also is making progress in negotiating the buy-out of its design division by management.it will use proceeds from a private placement of $8 million of preferred shares to purchase an interest in a start-up company to underwrite environmental impairment insurance.
he "would be disappointed.we couldn't do {the deal} within a month.
to give GM about a 15% stake that eventually would rise to about 30%.creating joint manufacturing ventures.
Jaguar figures a friendly alliance with GM will fend off unwelcome advances from Ford Motor Co.Ford, Jaguar's biggest shareholder since lifting its stake to 10.4% this week, is pressing harder for talks with Sir John.
Sir John has spurned Ford's advances.the U.S. auto giant launched a surprise bid for as much as 15% of Jaguar last month.
since the U.S. auto giant launched a surprise bid for as much as 15% of Jaguar last month.it might acquire a majority interest.
I'm not obligated to sit down and talk to anybody," the Jaguar chairman asserted yesterday.He didn't rule out negotiations with Ford.
Jaguar started negotiating with GM and several other car makers over a year ago.the rest "dropped by the wayside ever since the share price went above #4 ($6.30) a share.
but the rest "dropped by the wayside.the share price went above #4 ($6.30) a share.
Jaguar shares stood at 405 pence before Ford's initial announcement.the subsequent takeover frenzy has driven them up.
That may be difficult.you have somebody else breathing down your neck.
by enlisting support from U.S. takeover-stock speculators.and holding out the carrot of a larger bid.
Ford can't make a full-fledged bid for Jaguar.U.K. government restrictions expire.
Ford can't make a full-fledged bid for Jaguar until U.K. government restrictions expire.with its 10.4% stake, Ford can convene a special Jaguar shareholders' meeting and urge them to drop the restrictions prematurely.
But with its 10.4% stake, Ford can convene a special Jaguar shareholders' meeting and urge them to drop the restrictions prematurely. "It's a very valuable weapon in their armory," which could enable Ford to bid sooner for Jaguar.Jaguar may have to tolerate the two U.S. auto giants each owning a 15% stake for more than a year.
It has never been done before.there's always a first.
one reported a modest gain in third-quarter net while the other posted a small drop.two Baby Bells showed strong growth in access lines, usage and unregulated business revenue.
one reported a modest gain in third-quarter net.the other posted a small drop.
Ameritech Corp. 's earnings increased 2.8%.strong revenue gains were offset somewhat by refunds and rate reductions imposed by regulators in its Midwest territory.
Overall access minutes of use increased 10.3%.toll messages jumped 5.2%.
The refinancing of $481 million in long-term debt reduced net income by $22 million, or five cents a share, but in the long run will save more than $250 million in interest costs..The company previously said that the recent acquisition of Mobile Communications Corp. of America would dilute 1989 earnings by about 3%.earnings were reduced by rate reductions in Florida, Kentucky, Alabama, Tennessee and Louisiana.
Ameritech At Ameritech, based in Chicago, customer access lines increased by 402,000, or 2.6%.cellular mobile lines increased by 80,000, or 62.3%, for the 12-month period ended Sept. 30.
Local service revenue increased 3.5%.directory and unregulated business revenue jumped 9.5%.
Local service revenue increased 3.5% and directory and unregulated business revenue jumped 9.5%.network access revenue dropped 4% and toll revenue dropped 1.4%.
But network access revenue dropped 4%.toll revenue dropped 1.4%.
that the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1/2 percentage points in either direction.pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire.
For each poll, the odds are 19 out of 20 that if pollsters had sought to survey every household in the U.S. using the same questionnaire, the findings would differ from these poll results by no more than 2 1/2 percentage points in either direction.in any survey, there is always the chance that other factors such as question wording could introduce errors into the findings.
They accounted for a hefty 16% of New York Stock Exchange volume Monday, the fourth busiest session ever..On Friday, 13% of volume was in computer-guided program trades.In August program trading averaged 10.3% of daily Big Board turnover.
Program traders were publicly castigated following the 508-point crash Oct. 19, 1987.a number of brokerage firms pulled back from using this strategy for a while.
Program traders were publicly castigated following the 508-point crash Oct. 19, 1987, and a number of brokerage firms pulled back from using this strategy for a while.as the outcry faded by the spring of 1988, they resumed.
But they resumed.the outcry faded by the spring of 1988.
Some observers thought that after Friday's sharp drop, the firms would rein in their program traders to avoid stoking more controversy.the statistics released yesterday show the firms did nothing of the sort.
Stock-index arbitrage is the most controversial form of program trading.it accelerates market moves, if not actually causing them.
because it accelerates market moves.not actually causing them.
Stock-index arbitrage is the most controversial form of program trading because it accelerates market moves, if not actually causing them.Under the exchange's definitions, program trading describes a number of other strategies that, in the opinion of some traders, don't cause big swings in the market.
its monthly reports on program trading usually come out about three weeks after each month ends.it collects such data daily.
its monthly reports on program trading usually come out.each month ends.
The Big Board declined to name the Wall Street firms involved in the activity Friday and Monday, or the type of strategies used.traders on the exchange floor, who can observe the computer-guided trading activity on monitor screens, said most of the top program-trading firms were active both days.
that few executives would comment on the record.brokerage officials defended their use of program trading.
they said stock-index arbitrage was actually needed Monday to restore the markets' equilibrium.reciting the pardon for program trading contained in the Brady Commission report.
On Friday, the stock-index futures market was unhinged from the stock market.the Chicago Mercantile Exchange halted trading in Standard & Poor's 500 futures contract -- a "circuit breaker" procedure instituted after the 1987 crash and implemented for the first time.
Futures trading resumed a half-hour later.the session ended shortly thereafter, leaving the stock market set up for more sell programs.
Futures trading resumed a half-hour later.but the session ended.
By Monday morning stock-index arbitrage sell programs helped re-establish the link between stocks and futures.stunning volatility was produced in the process.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged a breathtaking 63.52 points in the first 40 minutes of trading Monday.stock-index arbitrage sell programs kicked in.
The Arizona real estate market continues to be depressed.there is still uncertainty as to when values will recover.
In July, Moody's downgraded $400 million of the company's debt, saying the bank holding company hadn't taken adequate write-offs against potential losses on real estate loans despite its second-quarter write-down.Richard M. Greenwood, Valley National's executive vice president, said that the company believed the write-downs were "adequate" and didn't plan to increase its reserves again.
They've stepped up to the plate to take the write-downs.when markets head down, a company is always exposed to further negative surprises.
but a company is always exposed to further negative surprises.markets head down.
that Oct. 19, 1987, was a fluke.that the stock market really is a safe place for average Americans to put their hard-earned dollars.
Ever since that fearful Black Monday, they've been tirelessly wooing wary individual investors -- trying to convince them that Oct. 19, 1987, was a fluke and that the stock market really is a safe place for average Americans to put their hard-earned dollars.until last Friday, it seemed those efforts were starting to pay off.
And until last Friday, it seemed those efforts were starting to pay off.came the frightening 190-point plunge in the Dow Jones Industrial Average and a new wave of stock-market volatility.
It's going to set things back for a period.it reinforces the concern of volatility.
I think it will shake confidence one more time.a lot of this business is based on client confidence.
even though they believe the deck is stacked against them.the public wants to invest in common stocks.
the public still wants to invest in common stocks.they believe the deck is stacked against them.
the public still wants to invest in common stocks, even though they believe the deck is stacked against them.these wide swings scare them to death.
retail brokerage operations these days are getting barely enough business to pay the overhead.expanding rapidly during the bull-market years up to the 1987 crash.
True, the amount of money investors are willing to entrust to their brokers has been growing lately.those dollars have been going into such "safe" products as money market funds, which don't generate much in the way of commissions for the brokerage firms.
The brokers' hope has been that they could soon coax investors into shifting some of their hoard into the stock market.before last Friday, they were actually making modest progress.
In 1987, an average 19.7% of Big Board volume was retail business, with the monthly level never more than 21.4%..The retail participation dropped to an average 18.2% in 1988, and shriveled to barely 14% some months during the year.in 1989, retail participation has been more than 20% in every month, and was 23.5% in August, the latest month for which figures are available.
that all of his group's retail-volume statistics could be overstated by as much as five percentage points.corporate buy-backs are sometimes inadvertently included in Big Board data.
that all of his group's retail-volume statistics could be overstated by as much as five percentage points because corporate buy-backs are sometimes inadvertently included in Big Board data.there did seem to be a retail activity pickup.
But there did seem to be a retail activity pickup.Friday didn't help things.
With the gyrations of recent days many small investors are absolutely convinced that "they shouldn't play in the stock market.Joseph Grano, president of retail sales and marketing at PaineWebber Group Inc. thinks that individual investors will eventually go back into the stock market.
Investors will develop "thicker skins.their confidence will return.
Joseph Grano, president of retail sales and marketing at PaineWebber Group Inc., still thinks that individual investors will eventually go back into the stock market.PaineWebber remains among the leaders in efforts to simply persuade investors to keep giving Wall Street their money.
Joseph Grano, president of retail sales and marketing at PaineWebber Group Inc., still thinks that individual investors will eventually go back into the stock market.PaineWebber remains among the leaders in efforts to simply persuade investors to keep giving Wall Street their money.
The equity decision will come.the client is ready.
when the client is ready.when there's a semblance of confidence.
The equity decision will come.and there's a semblance of confidence.
Some investors will tiptoe back in.there'll be another swing.
The offering, Series 1989-83, is backed by Fannie Mae 9% securities.Fannie Mae issued $400 million of Remic mortgage securities in 12 classes through First Boston Corp.
The two offerings bring Fannie Mae's 1989 Remic issuance to $31 billion and its total volume to $43.3 billion.the program began in April 1987.
there is a fallback rate of Libor plus 0.75 point in years one to 15, and Libor plus 1.25 point thereafter.no margin agreed.
Callable on March 31, 1992, at 109.beginning Sept. 30, 1992, from 101 1/2 and declining half a point semiannually to par.
The size of the issue was decreased from an originally planned $95.2 million.a planned two-part offering of $58 million in unsecured notes wasn't offered.
John V. Holmes, an investment-newsletter publisher, and three venture-capital firms he organized were enjoined from violating the registration provisions of the securities laws governing investment companies.As part of an agreement that settled charges brought by the Securities and Exchange Commission, a receiver was appointed for the three venture-capital firms.
Mr. Holmes was the subject of a page one profile in The Wall Street Journal in 1984.the SEC questioned him about ties between him and companies he touted in a newsletter.
In charges filed last week in federal district court in Charlotte, N.C., the SEC alleged that Venture Capitalists Inc., Venture Finance Corp. and New Ventures Fund Inc., all of Charlotte, failed repeatedly to file proper documents.The SEC charged that Mr. Holmes acted as an officer or director of New Ventures, in violation of his previous consent agreement.
John V. Holmes, an investment-newsletter publisher, and three venture-capital firms he organized were enjoined from violating the registration provisions of the securities laws governing investment companies.Two of Mr. Holmes's business associates who worked for Venture Capitalists, Kimberly Ann Smith and Frederick Byrum consented to being enjoined from violations of registration provisions of the securities laws.
Two of Mr. Holmes's business associates who worked for Venture Capitalists, Kimberly Ann Smith and Frederick Byrum, also consented to being enjoined from violations of registration provisions of the securities laws.Ms. Smith agreed to a permanent injunction barring her from acting as an officer, director or investment adviser of any mutual fund, unit investment trust or face-amount certificate company.
that a capital-gains tax cut of some sort would be approved this year.it probably won't be included in the pending deficit-reduction bill.
Senate Republicans have settled on a proposal that would cut the capital-gains tax for individuals and corporations.who wanted to cut the gains tax.
The exclusion would rise five percentage points for each year the asset was held.it reached a maximum of 35%.
For individuals, the Packwood plan would exclude from income 5% of the gain from the sale of a capital asset held for more than one year.taxpayers could chose to reduce their gains by an inflation index.
that would cut the capital-gains tax for individuals and corporations.The Packwood plan would include a proposal that would expand and alter the deduction for individual retirement accounts.
Senate Republicans have settled on a proposal that would cut the capital-gains tax for individuals and corporations.Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) of the House Ways and Means Committee said he didn't want the capital-gains tax cut or any other amendments attached to the pending bill raising the federal borrowing limit.
Separately, Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D., Ill.) of the House Ways and Means Committee said he didn't want the capital-gains tax cut or any other amendments attached to the pending bill raising the federal borrowing limit.He urged House and Senate negotiators to rid the deficit-reduction bill of all provisions that increase the budget deficit, including the House-passed capital-gains provision.
From a helicopter a thousand feet above Oakland after the second-deadliest earthquake in U.S. history, a scene of devastation emerges: a freeway crumbled into a concrete sandwich, hoses pumping water into once-fashionable apartments, abandoned autos.this quake wasn't the big one, the replay of 1906 that has been feared for so many years.
The economic life of the region is expected to revive in a day or two.some transportation problems may last weeks or months.
A main factor mitigating more widespread damage was the location of the quake's epicenter -- 20 miles from the heart of the Silicon Valley and more than 50 miles from downtown San Francisco and Oakland.the region's insistence on strict building codes helped prevent wider damage.
The tremendous energy of the quake was dissipated by the distance.most parts of the valley and the major cities suffered largely cosmetic damage -- broken windows, falling brick and cornices, buckled asphalt or sidewalks.
the region's largely unseen high-tech fabric held up surprisingly well despite the devastation visible from the air.the tremors struck.
nearly all the network's computer switches changed to battery power.the city lost power.
The battery packs have enough power for only three hours.that gave emergency crews time to turn on an emergency system that runs primarily on diesel fuel.
That's.the widely used fiber-optic cable has been installed underground with 25 extra feet of cable between junction points.
When the tremors struck, the region's largely unseen high-tech fabric held up surprisingly well despite the devastation visible from the air..Michael L. Bandler, vice president for network technology at Pacific Bell Telephone Co., says nearly all the network's computer switches, which move thousands of calls a minute from one location to another, changed to battery power when the city lost power..The battery packs have enough power for only three hours, but that gave emergency crews time to turn on an emergency system that runs primarily on diesel fuel..Of some 160 switches in Pacific Bell's network, only four went down..One of those was in Hollister, Calif., near the earthquake's epicenter..Few telephone lines snapped..That's because the widely used fiber-optic cable has been installed underground with 25 extra feet of cable between junction points..The slack absorbs the pulling strain generated by an earthquake.phone service was sporadic; many computer terminals remained dark, and by late yesterday a third of San Francisco remained without power.
Nevertheless, phone service was sporadic; many computer terminals remained dark.by late yesterday a third of San Francisco remained without power.
The economic dislocation was as abrupt as the earthquake itself.virtually all businesses shut down.
but wasn't stopping in the city's Financial District yesterday afternoon.electricity was shut off and the area was being checked for gas leaks.
because electricity was shut off.the area was being checked for gas leaks.
The damage to the Bay area's roadways could cause significant economic hardship.they don't expect serious problems for commerce in and out of the Bay area.
San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos estimated the damage to his city alone at $2 billion.many predicted that the commercial disruption would be short-lived.
Ten of the plant's workers were injured.the quake hit about a half-hour into the afternoon shift.
Ten of the plant's workers were injured.the quake hit about a half-hour into the afternoon shift.
Metal racks on the plant floor fell over.water mains ruptured.
The plant was evacuated.workers sent home.
The plant was evacuated and workers sent home.the plant was able to resume limited production of its Toyota Corollas and Geo Prizms by 6 a.m. yesterday, and absenteeism was only 7% of the work force, about twice normal.
But the plant was able to resume limited production of its Toyota Corollas and Geo Prizms by 6 a.m. yesterday.absenteeism was only 7% of the work force, about twice normal.
one of its buildings sustained severe damage.it was knocked off its foundation.
we turned on our emergency generator and brought our computers up.the quake hit.
much as highway on-ramps are blocked.traffic backs up.
most long-distance companies were blocking about 50% of all calls.its Pacific Bell unit was blocking about 50% of its calls locally.
Ironically, the long-term effect of the earthquake may be to bolster the Bay area's economic fortunes and, indeed, the nation's gross national product.It may lead to new safeguards in major construction projects such as double-deck highways.
It would in the near-term give a boost to the San Francisco economy.there will be an influx of people to help.
There's nothing positive about an earthquake.it will probably generate more construction activity.
Obviously with an earthquake of this size, there are likely to be construction projects.that wouldn't have been anticipated.
by bidding up stocks of construction and related companies.any increase isn't likely to be any kind of a surge.
The earthquake is likely to reduce GNP negligibly in the near term.and could raise it a bit as rebuilding begins.
and then could raise it a bit.rebuilding begins.
The first effects are, of course, negative.work is disrupted and people lose income and cut spending.
as work is disrupted.people lose income and cut spending.
The first effects are, of course, negative as work is disrupted and people lose income and cut spending.Corporate profits may dip initially.
The first effects are, of course, negative as work is disrupted and people lose income and cut spending.Subsequently the ill effects are likely to be offset, at least in economic terms, as construction activity begins.
Subsequently, however, the ill effects are likely to be offset, at least in economic terms.construction activity begins.
the damage totals in Hurricane Hugo increased tenfold.more information was received.
The earthquake damage, of course, would have been far greater.the epicenter had been in downtown San Francisco.
that it is far too soon for reliable estimates of the quake's total damage.it's clear that insurers are likely to pay out enormous sums.
Fireman's Fund will probably pay hundreds of millions in primary claims.after taxes and use of its reinsurance lines, the company's fourthquarter charge against earnings shouldn't top $50 million.
The company was able to assess its damage liability quickly.it has computerized maps of Northern California showing the exact locations of all the property it insures.
In addition to paying for earthquake and fire damage.many Californians may not have adequate insurance coverage to pay for damages to their property.
A somewhat higher percentage of people living in the Bay area have bought the additional insurance protection.the great majority aren't covered.
of the 250 people thought to have died here.About 20 other deaths were attributed to the earthquake.
The heart of the earthquake, 6.9 on the Richter scale, was 50 miles to the south, near Santa Cruz.its terrible fist struck here on the Nimitz Freeway, a major artery serving the Bay Bridge between Oakland and San Francisco.
Along the way, the quake toppled a mall in Santa Cruz, knocked down buildings in San Francisco's fashionable Marina District and sent a wall of bricks crashing on motorists in the city's Financial District.Just a short span across the bay to the west, the quake showed its mettle.
Many of the buildings, mostly condominiums and apartments, were flattened almost instantly.the underlying soil -- much of it landfill -- was literally turned to ooze by the quake's intensive shaking, rupturing gas lines.
three persons died.one of the buildings exploded into a fireball shortly after the quake struck.
three persons died.one of the buildings exploded into a fireball shortly after the quake struck.
when one of the buildings exploded into a fireball.the quake struck.
Efforts to fight the blaze were hampered.water mains were severed as well.
helmeted firemen and building inspectors survey rows of nearby buildings that were twisted from their foundations and seem on the verge of collapse.onlookers stand behind barricades.
We always heard about the earthquake.as children we didn't always listen.
the bonds won't be subject to redemption prior to maturity.otherwise specified in a particular offer.
to give consumers more information about its drugs.doctors prescribe them.
to be given to patients by their doctors.the medicines are prescribed.
Called Patients in the Know, the program features fact sheets designed to be easy to understand..The sheets tell how the medicine works, describe how to use it and list its possible side effects..They are designed to be given to patients by their doctors when the medicines are prescribed and include space for the doctor to write special instructions.Searle will give pharmacists brochures on the use of prescription drugs for distribution in their stores.
that money is wasted on some prescriptions.patients are deprived of the benefits of medication.
Bond prices rambled yesterday.investors kept close watch on the stock market and worried about a wave of new supply.
Early yesterday, bonds rose.investors rushed to buy Treasury securities on the prospect that stocks would plummet in the aftermath of the massive California earthquake.
Early yesterday, bonds rose as investors rushed to buy Treasury securities on the prospect that stocks would plummet in the aftermath of the massive California earthquake.when the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose instead, bonds drifted lower.
But bonds drifted lower.the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose instead.
that stocks would plummet in the aftermath of the massive California earthquake.when the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose.
the stock market tremors are behind us.the bond market will go back to looking at the next batch of economic numbers to determine" where interest rates are heading.
Most junk bonds, which have been battered in recent weeks, continued a slow recuperation and ended unchanged to slightly higher.some so-called high-quality junk issues fell as some mutual funds sold their most liquid issues to raise cash.
But some so-called high-quality junk issues fell.some mutual funds sold their most liquid issues to raise cash.
Investors have been speculating for weeks about the market's ability to place the $7 billion to $10 billion of new junk bonds scheduled to be sold by year end.Supply troubles were on the minds of Treasury investors yesterday.
In addition to the $15.6 billion of Treasury bills to be sold at next week's regular Monday auction, the government will sell $10 billion of new two-year Treasury notes.that it will sell $4.5 billion of 30-year bonds Wednesday.
In the municipal market, all eyes were on California debt.investors tried to gauge the financial ramifications of Tuesday's earthquake.
In the municipal market, all eyes were on California debt as investors tried to gauge the financial ramifications of Tuesday's earthquake.the quake had only a minor impact on the trading of California state and local municipal debt.
traders refer to as `earthquake' bonds.the (issuers) are on top of the San Andreas fault.
they weren't materially affected.those bonds already pay a slightly higher yield, an extra premium for the earthquake risk.
Since those bonds already pay a slightly higher yield, an extra premium for the earthquake risk, they weren't materially affected.that could quickly change if property casualty insurance companies scramble to sell portions of their municipal portfolios to raise cash to pay damage claims.
that could quickly change.property casualty insurance companies scramble to sell portions of their municipal portfolios to raise cash to pay damage claims.
Insurance companies will foot a substantial amount of the bill to reconstruct San Francisco," said Charles Lieberman, chief economist at Manufacturers Hanover Securities Corp.He expects the performance of municipals to lag Treasurys as California is forced to issue new debt over time to repair public facilities.
the performance of municipals to lag Treasurys.California is forced to issue new debt over time.
Municipal bonds ended about 1/8 to 3/8 point lower.some California issues were down a touch more than the broad market.
Municipal bonds ended about 1/8 to 3/8 point lower.some California issues were down a touch more than the broad market.
Meanwhile, some California issues were down a touch more than the broad market.there hadn't been much investor selling because of the quake.
there hadn't been much investor selling because of the quake.New York City general obligation bonds came under selling pressure.
there was some concern that insurance companies might be forced to sell mortgage securities to help pay earthquake-related claims.no selling materialized.
The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. and Federal National Mortgage Association, two dominant issuers of mortgage securities, have a sizable amount of California home loans in their mortgagebacked pools.their potential quake exposure is seen as small given that they require a financial cushion on all the loans they purchase.
But their potential quake exposure is seen as small given that they require a financial cushion on all the loans they purchase.because Northern California home prices are so high, loans from the region often are too large to be included in Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae pools.
And loans from the region often are too large to be included in Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae pools.Northern California home prices are so high.
Mortgage securities ended little changed after light dealings.Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for November delivery ended at 97 29/32, unchanged.
Mortgage securities ended little changed after light dealings.Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for November delivery ended at 97 29/32, unchanged.
British government bonds, or gilts, ended moderately lower.equities there recovered from Tuesday's drop.
The Treasury's 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 fell 11/32 to 111 31/32 to yield 10.08%.the 12% notes due 1995 were down 7/32 to 103 22/32 to yield 11.04%.
Several key economic figures are due out.Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson is scheduled to give the annual "Mansion House" address to the financial community.
British government bonds, or gilts, ended moderately lower as equities there recovered from Tuesday's drop.Japanese government bonds retreated in quiet trading, stymied by the dollar's resiliency.
British government bonds, or gilts, ended moderately lower as equities there recovered from Tuesday's drop.Japanese government bonds retreated in quiet trading, stymied by the dollar's resiliency.
In West Germany, investors stayed on the sidelines.the bond market searched for direction.
The Berlin Wall still stands.the man who built it has fallen.
East Germany yesterday removed Erich Honecker, one of the staunchest holdouts against the reform rumbling through the Communist world, in an effort to win back the confidence of its increasingly rebellious citizens.while it was a move that stunned the East bloc, it hardly ushers in an era of reform -- at least anytime soon.
But it hardly ushers in an era of reform -- at least anytime soon.it was a move that stunned the East bloc.
East Germany is no Poland.is it a Hungary.
East Germany, it is clear, is no Poland, where the Communist Party now shares power with the democratically elected Solidarity union..Nor is it a Hungary, where yesterday the parliament approved constitutional changes meant to help turn the Communist nation into a multiparty democracy.any change in East Germany has enormous implications, for both East and West.
Mr. Krenz, 52, was named the new party chief.the Party's 163-member Central Committee convened in East Berlin.
West German government sources said the 26-man Politburo had asked for his resignation at a separate meeting late Tuesday.the East German news agency ADN claimed Mr. Honecker had asked to be relieved of his duties for "health reasons.
Mr..Honecker was twice hospitalized this summer for a gall bladder ailment.his physical condition has been the subject of intense speculation in the Western media.
East Germany yesterday removed Erich Honecker, one of the staunchest holdouts against the reform rumbling through the Communist world, in an effort to win back the confidence of its increasingly rebellious citizens.Mr. Honecker, a hard-line Stalinist who in 1961 supervised the construction of the Berlin Wall was relieved of his title as head of state and his position as chief of the military.
to be formally named to all three positions.the nation's parliament convenes later this week.
His grip on power unraveled this summer.thousands of his countrymen, dissatisfied by the harshness of his rule, fled to the West.
The official line was to offer warmer ties to Mr. Krenz, provided he is willing to institute reforms.U.S. officials have strong doubts that he is a reformer.
I don't think so.Mr. Krenz has been very much in accord with the policies of Honecker.
There is no clear-cut champion of reform, that we know of, in the East German leadership.Mr. Krenz said on East German television last night that there will be no sharing of power with pro-democracy groups.
enough forums already exist "in which different interests" can express themselves.dialogue is important.
According to West German government sources, Mr. Honecker and several senior Politburo members fought over the last week to delay any decisions about a leadership change.with public demonstrations in the country growing in size and intensity, Mr. Honecker and several key allies lost out in this battle.
But Mr. Honecker and several key allies lost out in this battle.Both men were relieved of their duties yesterday.
it's still not clear to what extent the change in party personnel will alter the government's resistance to fundamental change.other resignations may follow.
he was eight years old.World War II ended.
Mr. Krenz had acquired the nickname "crown prince," a reference to the widely held view that he was the hand-picked successor to Mr. Honecker.joining the Politburo in 1983 as its youngest member.
Mr. Krenz had acquired the nickname "crown prince," a reference to the widely held view that he was the hand-picked successor to Mr. Honecker.the two men have had strikingly similar career paths.
In fact, the two men have had strikingly similar career paths.both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy.
when he visited China after the massacre in Beijing.He defended the Chinese government's response during a separate visit to West Germany.
Moreover, both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy.Mr. Krenz also has a reputation for being politically savvy.
Moreover, both men have hewn to a similar hard-line philosophy.However, Mr. Krenz has a reputation for being politically savvy.
His shrewd ability to read the shifting popular mood in East Germany is best illustrated by his apparent break with his old mentor, Mr. Honecker.according to West German government sources, he was one of the leaders in the power struggle that toppled Mr. Honecker.
Mr. Krenz could loosen controls on the news media, free up travel restrictions, and establish a dialogue with various dissident groups.sacking other senior Politburo officials who allied themselves with Mr. Honecker.
As part of his image polishing, Mr. Krenz is expected to take modest steps toward reform to rebuild confidence among the people and reassert the party's authority..Besides sacking other senior Politburo officials who allied themselves with Mr. Honecker, Mr. Krenz could loosen controls on the news media, free up travel restrictions, and establish a dialogue with various dissident groups.will it be enough.
He doesn't signify what people want.the unrest will go on.
Not just that people are being heard.that their interests are being taken seriously.
West German government officials and Western analysts are doubtful At the same time, the expectations of the East German people are great and will continue to grow.Chancellor Kohl has invited Mr. Krenz to open discussions with Bonn on a wide range of subjects.
West German government officials and Western analysts are doubtful At the same time, the expectations of the East German people are great and will continue to grow.Chancellor Kohl has invited Mr. Krenz to open discussions with Bonn on a wide range of subjects.
Adding to that speculation is Mr. Krenz's reputation as a heavy drinker.to suffer from diabetes.
This is a dynamic process.we're experiencing the first step.
Reports in the West German press, citing sources in East Germany, suggest Mr. Krenz may serve only as a bridge between Mr. Honecker and a genuine reform leader.The selection of Mr. Krenz may disappoint Moscow.
the pressure from the Soviet Union could intensify.Mr. Krenz sticks to rigid policies.
of what might happen.they didn't.
Erasing the differences still dividing Europe, and the vast international reordering that implies, won't endanger the statehood of a Poland or a Hungary.it could ultimately lead to German reunification and the disappearance of East Germany from the map.
Erasing the differences still dividing Europe, and the vast international reordering that implies, won't endanger the statehood of a Poland or a Hungary.But it could lead to German reunification and the disappearance of East Germany from the map.
Early in 1987, Mr. Honecker and his team stopped paying thin compliments to Mr. Gorbachev and joined with Romania in rejecting any necessity for adjustments in their systems.The less-self-confident Czechoslovaks and Bulgarians declared their intentions to reform, while doing nothing concrete about it.
The less-self-confident Czechoslovaks and Bulgarians, in contrast, declared their intentions to reform.doing nothing concrete about it.
The country abandoned its former devotion to socialist unity.and took to insisting that each country in the bloc ought to travel its own road.
Gingerly, some economists began to blame central planning.they are stalwart socialists.
Their proclaimed purpose is to cleanse East Germany of its Stalinist muck, not to merge with the West.the man Mr. Krenz replaces has left an indelible mark on East German society.
Their proclaimed purpose is to cleanse East Germany of its Stalinist muck, not to merge with the West.the man Mr. Krenz replaces has left an indelible mark on East German society.
Imprisoned by the Nazis during World War II for his political beliefs, Mr. Honecker typified the postwar generation of committed Communist leaders in Eastern Europe who took their cues from Moscow..He was a "socialist warrior" who felt rankled by West Germany's enormous postwar prosperity and the Bonn government's steadfast refusal to recognize the legitimacy of his state.during his first and only state visit to Bonn two years ago, he won some measure of the recognition he had long sought.
Finally, during his first and only state visit to Bonn two years ago, he won some measure of the recognition he had long sought.ultimately he was undone by forces unleashed by his own comrade, Mr. Gorbachev.
The European Community Commission increased its forecast for economic growth in the EC in 1989 to 3.5%, slightly higher than its June projection of 3.25%.In its annual economic report for 1989-1990, the commission projected 1990 gross domestic product growth for the 12 EC members at 3%.
EC inflation was seen at 4.8% in 1989, higher than 1988's 3.6% price rise.inflation for 1990 was seen slowing to 4.5%.
that the base will be relocated to a small island to allow downtown redevelopment.Beijing wants to use the base for the People's Liberation Army after 1997, when the territory returns to Chinese sovereignty.
In addition to abetting in the alleged criminal breach of trust.with dishonestly receiving S$500,000 that had been stolen.
News of the arrest and charging of the two men helped to push prices on the Singapore Stock market sharply lower in early trading yesterday.that the market and CDL shares recovered once it became apparent the charges were limited to the two men personally.
that the market and CDL shares recovered.it became apparent the charges were limited to the two men personally.
British Tissues decided to do away with its hard paper.a major customer, British Rail, switched to softer tissues for train bathrooms.
the bricks were used to build homes and furnaces.as a result, the wall "is in terrible shape.
the bricks were used to build homes and furnaces.and the wall "is in terrible shape.
he could be imprisoned for up to 10 years and fined $250,000.convicted.
Mr. Sung couldn't be reached for comment.He denied the allegations against him in the lawsuit by Norton and GE.
NBC News began assessing the damage from what some said was a failure to provide comprehensive coverage in the earthquake's initial moments.the citizens of San Francisco and surrounding communities began assessing the damage from Tuesday's devastating earthquake.
NBC News was unable to get its signal out of San Francisco for the first hour after the quake.rival ABC News outstripped the competition in live coverage of the event by sheer luck.
the network was broadcasting the World Series from Candlestick Park.the quake struck.
I have to attribute the lackluster performance to a natural disaster.before I start to be really critical of NBC, I would like to know more about what happened.
So I would like to know more about what happened.I start to be really critical of NBC.
There were no complaints from affiliates of CBS Inc. and Cable News Network, a unit of Turner Broadcasting System Inc.that was not the case at NBC News, which has been dogged with the image of not being aggressive on major breaking stories.
There are no commercials to make up for.we're going to eventually broadcast the World Series.
the decision to eliminate the dividend resulted from a quarterly appraisal.that circumstances had changed since the December announcement.
that Pinnacle West may have to inject between $300 million and $400 million into the MeraBank unit.turning the thrift over to federal regulators.
The latest period included a $9 million write-down on undeveloped land.the year-earlier period included a $46 million reserve for real-estate losses.
he said their operations "continue to drain the resources of Equitec.he didn't describe the partnerships' financial condition.
He was threatening to take over the carrier.spending an estimated $167 million to build an 8.4% USAir stake for his investment clients.
It doesn't make sense to parachute out at this price," Mr. Steinhardt says.he has stopped his takeover talk and now commends USAir managers' "operating skills.
A week ago, USAir stock briefly soared above 52 after a report in USA Today that Mr. Steinhardt might launch a hostile bid for the carrier.takeover speculators say they were skeptical.
Steinhardt's presence wasn't worth anything, in terms of getting a deal done.USAir is worth 80 as a takeover and the stock went to 52.
If USAir is worth 80 as a takeover.the stock went to 52.
In trying to raid USAir, Mr. Steinhardt abandoned his usual role as a passive investor, and ran into snags.unlike Mr. Buffett, who often holds big stakes in companies for years, Mr. Steinhardt hasn't in the past done much long-term investing.
Mr. Steinhardt made his name as a gunslinging trader, moving in and out of stocks with agility -- enriching himself and his investment clients.his big losses, for instance in 1987's crash, generally have been trading losses.
Mr. Steinhardt made his name as a gunslinging trader, moving in and out of stocks with agility -- enriching himself and his investment clients.his big losses, for instance in 1987's crash, generally have been trading losses.
Mr. Steinhardt, who runs about $1.7 billion for Steinhardt Partners, made his name as a gunslinging trader, moving in and out of stocks with agility -- enriching himself and his investment clients..Meanwhile, his big losses, for instance in 1987's crash, generally have been trading losses.some see a special irony in the fact that Mr. Steinhardt, the trader, now is encumbered with a massive, illiquid airline holding.
USAir stock might lose four or five points.the Steinhardt stake was dumped all at once.
USAir stock might lose four or five points if the Steinhardt stake was dumped all at once.Mr. Steinhardt must reconcile himself to selling USAir at a loss, or to holding the shares as an old-fashioned investment.
He doesn't usually risk that much.he thinks he has an ace in the hole.
In recent days USAir has been buying its own shares, as part of a program to retire about eight million USAir shares.the carrier won't discuss its buy-back program.
that might be a way for Mr. Steinhardt to get out.USAir stepped up its share purchases.
If USAir stepped up its share purchases, that might be a way for Mr. Steinhardt to get out.USAir might not want to help Mr. Steinhardt.
In 1987, USAir Chairman Edwin Colodny stonewalled.Trans World Airlines Chairman Carl Icahn threatened to take over the carrier.
Mr. Icahn, a much more practiced raider than Mr. Steinhardt, eventually sold a big USAir stake at a tiny profit through Bear, Stearns.Mr. Steinhardt could take that route.
Mr. Steinhardt also could take that route.with airline stocks cratering, he might not get a very good price for his shares.
its defenses, including the sale in August of a 12% stake in the company to Mr. Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway, are pretty strong.USAir isn't considered absolutely takeover-proof.
Since last April, the investor has made seven so-called 13D filings in USAir.he bought and sold the company's stock.
Such disclosures of big holdings often are used by raiders to try to scare a company's managers, and to stir interest in the stock.of course it would be highly unusual for an investment fund such as Steinhardt Partners to take over a company.
traders should buy the stock.it tumbles to 35.
Analysts say USAir has great promise.meanwhile, USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines, which it acquired.
By the second half of 1990, USAir stock could hit 60.But USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines, which it acquired.
By the second half of 1990, USAir stock could hit 60.But USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines, which it acquired.
to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters.it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines.
But meanwhile, USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines, which it acquired.some investors think a recession or renewed airfare wars will pummel airline stocks in coming months.
But meanwhile, USAir is expected to show losses or lackluster profit for several quarters as it tries to digest Piedmont Airlines, which it acquired..Moreover, some investors think a recession or renewed airfare wars will pummel airline stocks in coming months.he's "comfortable holding USAir as an investment.
that contrary to rumors, he hasn't tried to unload his holding.he has bought and sold some USAir shares in recent days.
the redemption is permitted.the price of Addington's stock has equaled or exceeded $19.60 for 20 consecutive trading days, a condition set in the terms of the debentures.
Debenture holders are expected to convert most of the debentures into common.the value of the stock received in a conversion would exceed the $1,103.11 redemption price.
it will report a loss for the first quarter ended Sept. 30.sales of personal computers for the home market remained weak in some major countries.
that its announcement is based on preliminary information.that the situation could look different by the time final results are announced early next month.
and that the situation could look different by the time final results are announced early next month.Commodore's fiscal fourth-quarter loss was $2 million narrower than Commodore had expected a few weeks after the quarter closed.
than Commodore had expected.the quarter closed.
and that the situation could look different by the time final results are announced early next month.even results approaching break-even would mark a sharp weakening compared with fiscal 1989 first-quarter earnings of $9.6 million, or 30 cents a share, on sales of $200.2 million.
The price can be expected to erode further.the loss estimate came after the market closed.
because the loss estimate came.the market closed.
Commodore has assembled an experienced management team, it has persuaded many more dealers to carry its products.it has unleashed a slick advertising campaign.
Commodore has assembled an experienced management team, it has persuaded many more dealers to carry its products and it has unleashed a slick advertising campaign.those represent long-term strategies that probably won't succeed quickly, even if they turn out to be the right ones.
that probably won't succeed quickly.they turn out to be the right ones.
But those represent long-term strategies that probably won't succeed quickly, even if they turn out to be the right ones.the strategies will increase expenses.
which has slick graphics.has been slow to catch on.
yet has been slow to catch on.it isn't compatible with Apple Computer Inc. or International Business Machines Corp. hardware.
Commodore had been counting on its consumer business to stay sufficiently healthy to support its efforts in other areas.sales to consumers have become difficult during the past several months, even in West Germany, which has been by far Commodore's strongest market.
by continuing to produce strong sales.other low-profit personal computers now operate several times as fast and have much more memory.
Commodore has said it expects sales to rebound.market researchers have said that sales of the low-end products may finally be trailing off.
Activity continued to slow from the hectic pace set during the market's plunge late Friday and its rebound Monday.players began to set their sights on events coming later this week.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted through the session within a trading range of about 30 points.closing with a gain of 4.92 at 2643.65.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average drifted through the session within a trading range of about 30 points before closing with a gain of 4.92 at 2643.65.Broader averages posted modest gains.
Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index rose 0.60 to 341.76, the Dow Jones Equity Market Index rose 0.71 to 320.54.the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index gained 0.43 to 189.32.
Some 822 New York Stock Exchange issues advanced in price.668 declined.
Broader averages also posted modest gains.the Dow Jones Transportation Average went down for the seventh consecutive session, due largely to further selling in UAL.
and has now lost 21.7% of its value.the losing streak began Oct. 10.
Traders cited anticipation of the consumer price report for September, due today, and tomorrow's expiration of October stock-index futures and options as major factors in the slowdown.activity at a number of San Francisco-based brokerage houses was curtailed as a result of the earthquake.
The early move essentially established the day's trading range.they saw little of the program activity that has battered the market recently.
to see more volatility.some of the institutions who were spooked last Friday did some selling.
prices to show some renewed instability over the next few sessions.institutions re-evaluate their stance toward the market in light of its decline.
Insurance stocks were sold at the opening amid concerns about the level of damage claims the companies would receive as a result of the earthquake.those issues recovered quickly and turned higher because of expectations that the quake and the recent Hurricane Hugo would set the stage for an increase in premium rates.
Marsh & McLennan advanced 3 1/8 to 75 7/8, Alexander & Alexander Services climbed 2 to 32.Corroon & Black firmed 1 7/8 to 37 1/2.
Aetna Life & Casualty added 2 3/8 to 59 1/2.Cigna advanced 7/8 to 62 1/2.
Fluor rose 3/4 to 33 3/8, Morrison Knudsen gained 2 1/4 to 44 1/8, Foster Wheeler added 3/8 to 18 1/4.Ameron climbed 2 3/8 to 39 3/4.
Among engineering firms, CRS Sirrine rose 5/8 to 34 1/4 on the Big Board.four others rallied on the American Stock Exchange: Jacobs Engineering Group, which gained 1 1/8 to 25 3/8, Greiner Engineering, which rose 3 1/2 to 22 1/2; Michael Baker, which added 1 1/4 to 15 1/4, and American Science & Engineering, up 1/2 to 8 1/2.
Within the building-materials group, Georgia-Pacific climbed 1 1/4 to 58.Louisiana-Pacific added 1 to 40 3/4.
Within the building-materials group, Georgia-Pacific climbed 1 1/4 to 58 and Louisiana-Pacific added 1 to 40 3/4.Merrill Lynch recommended the forest-products issues.
CalMat advanced 2 3/4 to 28 3/4, Lone Star Industries gained 1 3/4 to 29 1/4, Lafarge rose 1 to 19 1/2, Southdown added 5/8 to 24 5/8.Eljer Industries rose 1 1/4 to 24 7/8.
Pacific Gas & Electric fell 3/8 to 19 5/8 in Big Board composite trading of 1.7 million shares.Pacific Telesis Group slipped 5/8 to 44 5/8 as the companies worked to restore service to areas affected by the quake.
Pacific Gas & Electric fell 3/8 to 19 5/8 in Big Board composite trading of 1.7 million shares and Pacific Telesis Group slipped 5/8 to 44 5/8.the companies worked to restore service to areas affected by the quake.
it had to shut down a crude-oil pipeline in the Bay area to check for leaks.that its refinery in nearby Richmond, Calif., was undamaged.
BankAmerica eased 1/2 to 31 7/8.Wells Fargo lost 1/2 to 81 1/2.
Among California savings-and-loan stocks, H.F. Ahmanson eased 3/8 to 22 1/4, CalFed slid 3/4 to 24 1/8, Great Western Financial dropped 1/2 to 21 1/4.Golden West Financial fell 5/8 to 29 1/4.
UAL, the parent company of United Airlines, swung within a 14-point range during the course of the session.closing at 191 3/4, down 6 1/4, on 2.3 million shares.
it had yet to receive a revised proposal.it was "in no way committed" to the completion of a bid.
it had yet to receive a revised proposal and it was "in no way committed" to the completion of a bid.investor Marvin Davis withdrew his backup $300-a-share takeover offer.
AMR, the parent of American Airlines, pulled out of its recent nosedive.UAL faltered.
The stock had been on the decline.the financing for the UAL buy-out fell through on Friday and developer Donald Trump subsequently withdrew a takeover offer of $120 a share for AMR.
The stock had been on the decline since the financing for the UAL buy-out fell through on Friday.developer Donald Trump subsequently withdrew a takeover offer of $120 a share for AMR.
While UAL faltered, AMR, the parent of American Airlines, pulled out of its recent nosedive by rising 3/4 to 74.AMR was the most active Big Board issue.
Colgate-Palmolive advanced 1 5/8 to 63.saying it was comfortable with analysts' projections that third-quarter net income from continuing operations would be between 95 cents and $1.05 a share, up from 69 cents a year ago.
Analysts at several brokerage firms lowered their 1989 and 1990 earnings estimates on the company.its third-quarter results proved disappointing.
Philip Morris disclosed little detailed information about performance by major business lines.to say that most, including Philip Morris U.S.A., Kraft General Foods and Miller Brewing Co., posted increased revenues.
it plans to suspend operations for an indefinite period at its Tartan gold mine in Manitoba.it plans in the third quarter to write down the carrying value of the Tartan mine by 2.5 million Canadian dollars (US$ 2.12 million), and to write off most of the C$6.3 million carrying value of its Windflower gold property in British Columbia.
Granges didn't say what impact the moves would have on total gold output or earnings.company officials weren't available.
but needs to find new markets.it is to maintain its growth rate of 30% and more each year.
For one thing, Digital, Maynard, Mass., has sold fewer machines.its machines are typically easier to operate, so customers require less assistance from software.
In addition, its machines are typically easier to operate.customers require less assistance from software.
Revenue fell 12.7% to $596.8 million from $684 million.some of the decline was caused by discontinued operations.
Wang Laboratories Inc., Lowell, Mass., beset by declining demand for its computers, reported a $62.1 million, 38-cents-a-share loss in its first quarter ended Sept. 30.Wang had forecast a loss.
that it expects another loss in the second quarter and for the full year.it expects a profitable fourth quarter.
In a Dutch auction, the buyer sets a price range.holders give a price in that range at which they're willing to sell their shares.
In a Dutch auction, the buyer sets a price range and holders give a price in that range at which they're willing to sell their shares.The buyer picks a price and buys shares at that price from holders who offered to sell at that price or lower.
Chicago-based Continental earned $65.2 million, or $1.04 a share, compared with $73.6 million, or $1.19 a share, a year earlier.The 1988 quarter included one-time gains totaling about $35 million.
a subsidiary and two United Kingdom firms are studying the feasibility of constructing a 1,500 megawatt gas-fired power plant in northern England as an outgrowth of the government's privatization program.participating in the study is the National Power division of Britain's Central Electricity Generating Board.
A year ago, Viacom had a net loss of $56.9 million, or $1.07 a share..Interest expense in the 1988 third quarter was $75.3 million.In the year-ago quarter, Viacom paid preferred stock dividends of $17 million.
revenue rose to $345.5 million, from $311.6 million.it restructured bank debt under a $1.5 billion unsecured bank agreement that offers significant interest rate savings.
the investors would pay only a symbolic one lira for the station.we have agreed to raise the capital that will enable the company to continue operating.
that protects companies from creditors.they restructure.
that details of the recapitalization still have to be worked out.that Pathe will take 50% of Odeon, Rome film producer Bruno Lucisano will take 10% and the remaining 16.66%, currently owned by Sasea, will eventually be sold to other investors.
but that Pathe will take 50% of Odeon, Rome film producer Bruno Lucisano will take 10%.the remaining 16.66%, currently owned by Sasea, will eventually be sold to other investors.
to own a station.the law is passed.
before the law is passed.than to try to buy one.
They are telling people what roads are closed.just keeping the public informed has helped to keep the panic down.
In 1988, Dallas-based Sterling protested a similar decision by NASA involving the same contract, claiming it had submitted the lowest bid.last March the General Services Administration board of contract appeals directed NASA to reopen negotiations on the contract.
For the rest of 1989 Conrail's traffic and revenue "will reflect the sluggish economy.Conrail will continue to take steps to control and reduce costs.
We did see some relief in raw material costs.it wasn't sufficient to offset the drop in sales prices.
This temblor-prone city dispatched inspectors, firefighters and other earthquake-trained personnel to aid San Francisco.a secondary agenda among officials in the City of Angels was to learn about the disaster-contingency plans that work and those that don't.
Los Angeles cope in the first few weeks after its own anticipated quake.waiting for federal assistance to arrive.
Los Angeles dispatched 32 inspectors to help.San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos spoke on television of the need for building inspectors to check the soundness of buildings.
After San Francisco Mayor Art Agnos spoke on television of the need for building inspectors to check the soundness of buildings, Los Angeles dispatched 32 inspectors to help.the county of Los Angeles placed its firefighters and sheriffs on alert, ready to send in reinforcements, and alerted San Francisco that the city has 1,000 hospital beds at its disposal.
Two Los Angeles radio stations initiated Red Cross donation campaigns.one Los Angeles bank manager forked over $150,000 of his own money for relief purposes.
The Los Angeles Red Cross sent 2,480 cots, 500 blankets, and 300 pints of Type-O blood.It is pulling 20 people out of Puerto Rico, who were helping Huricane Hugo victims, and sending them to San Francisco instead.
It is also pulling 20 people out of Puerto Rico.and sending them to San Francisco.
The decision was announced.trading ended.
The U.S. wants a higher won to make South Korea's exports more expensive and help trim Seoul's trade surplus.Many South Korean business people want a devaluation.
South Korean President Roh Tae Woo said the currency's current level against the dollar is "appropriate.Mr. Roh said South Korea is taking steps that would free the won to respond to market forces.
Mr. Roh said a U.S. demand for the removal of South Korean import quotas on beef will be resolved "satisfactorily" but gave no hint when that will happen.Speaking to a joint meeting of Congress.
Those activities generated $26.1 million in operating profit last year.according to Great American, such profits don't count toward meeting the San Diego savings bank's new capitalization requirements under 1989 federal law.
The proposed holding company's primary purpose would be to allow Great American to continue engaging in real estate development activities.The proposed holding company would consolidate Great American Bank in San Diego and its Tucson, Ariz., savings bank into a single, federally chartered institution in San Diego.
that Ms. is "in dire straits.that Sassy needs big promotional dollars to keep it alive.
Mr. Lang admits that Ms. is "in dire straits" and that Sassy needs big promotional dollars to keep it alive.the 57-year-old publisher has moved quickly and boldly to deal with the magazines' problems.
it has been the target of conservative lobbyists and skittish advertisers who bristled at its frank editorial matter on teen-age problems.Sassy has grown quickly since its debut in March 1988.
circulation has quickly passed the 500,000 mark.advertising pages have stabilized this year at more than 300.
Seventeen is written more for mothers, not their daughters.Sassy has a different spirit..It gets more mail in a month than McCall's got in a year, and it's not from mothers.
It gets more mail in a month than McCall's got in a year.it's not from mothers.
Lang owns 70% of Matilda.Citicorp owns the rest through its Citicorp Venture Capital Partners.
Industry observers have congratulated Mr. Lang on what some call his "courageous" handling of Ms.his track record in magazine publishing in general has gotten mixed reviews.
Working Woman, with circulation near one million, and Working Mother, with 625,000 circulation, are legitimate magazine success stories.The magazine Success was for years lackluster and unfocused.
Only recently has it been attractively redesigned.its editorial product improved.
with McCall's magazine being sold last summer to the New York Times Co. 's Magazine Group for about $80 million.Time Warner agreeing to sell back its 50% interest in Working Woman and Working Mother to Mr. Lang.
Mr. Lang surprised Time.joining forces.
Mr. Lang surprised Time soon after joining forces.he said he would negotiate rates individually with advertisers, a practice common in broadcasting but considered taboo by magazine publishers.
Mr. Lang surprised Time soon after joining forces when he said he would negotiate rates individually with advertisers, a practice common in broadcasting but considered taboo by magazine publishers.McCall's put in a less than stellar performance.
Time executives complained about the shoddy editorial quality.in the end, one Time executive who asked not to be identified said, "Frankly, McCall's and the joint venture were an embarrassment.
Time executives complained about the shoddy editorial quality.and one Time executive who asked not to be identified said, "Frankly, McCall's and the joint venture were an embarrassment.
Their management changed.{the venture was formed}.
Their management changed right after {the venture was formed}.I don't think they were comfortable getting into the competitive wars of women's service magazines.
that even Success, in part, fits the company's image.about 30% of its readership is female.
We would have to go outside to banks to get the money.I am not ready to do that.
and I am not ready to do that.we have enough on our plate.
that Rhone-Poulenc would likely respond by closing the salicylates plant Monsanto operates in Wales.the British government attempted to block the merger.
Boise, Idaho-based Morrison had losses totaling $186 million over the two years ended in December.it has surged back to profitability as a result of cost-cutting and shedding of unprofitable operations.
he accepted the finding.one of the victims, Dorena Bertussi, denounced the ethics panel's action as "absurd.
Acting.Ms. Bertussi filed a complaint.
It ordered Rep. Bates to write letters of apology to Ms. Bertussi and to a second complainant, Karen Dryden.The panel warned Rep. Bates that any further violations "may result in a recommendation that disciplinary action be considered.
that any further violations "may result in a recommendation that disciplinary action be considered.Who in their right mind is going to file another complaint with the Ethics Committee.
StatesWest declined to disclose details and asked Mesa to do the same.it made the offer.
When it made the offer, StatesWest declined to disclose details and asked Mesa to do the same.Farmington, N.M.-based Mesa said the offer was for $7 in cash and unspecified StatesWest securities valued at $3 a share.
Profit after taxes and minority interests increased 16% to #55.2 million from #47.6 million in the year-earlier period.earnings per share rose 16% to 27.9 pence (44 cents) from 24.1 pence (38 cents).
Fleet/Norstar Financial Group reported a 12% increase in net income in the third quarter, led by a 43% gain in its financial services group.Fleet noted that, unlike other banking companies in the Northeast, it has been only marginally hurt by nonperforming loans that have resulted from the slumping regional real estate market.
The additional reserves relate to possible write-downs of certain assets held by Franklin and its subsidiaries and the default of a bond in its investment portfolio.According to a spokeswoman, they relate to changes Franklin will have to make in its accounting procedures to comply with new federal capitalization requirements for thrifts.
Arkla Inc. said that as part of a program to improve profitability it will take a total of $189 million in after-tax charges by year end.It announced an initial public offering of 18% of its gas exploration and production subsidiary.
for South African debtors to make repayments in eight installments, starting in December of next year.The redemption would be at 1.5% of the total debt, increasing to 2.5% in February 1991, and to 3% at six-month intervals thereafter.
that has voted Republican in the past five presidential elections.that was once represented by Republican U.S. Sen. Trent Lott.
Business was slow.many companies were closed yesterday.
Most of its 4,500 workers were at work yesterday.no production slowdown was anticipated as long as electricity remains available.
and no production slowdown was anticipated.electricity remains available.
AMDAHL CORP., Sunnyvale, computer maker, annual sales of $1.8 billion, Amex, was closed yesterday.no damage estimates were available.
AMERICAN BUILDING MAINTENANCE INDUSTRIES Inc., San Francisco, provider of maintenance services, annual revenue of $582 million, NYSE, had some damage to headquarters and lost phone service.operations were moved to a branch office and are running smoothly thanks to a decentralized computer system the company had developed before the quake.
BANKAMERICA Corp., San Francisco, bank holding company, annual revenue of $10.2 billion, NYSE, yesterday had no power at its headquarters, 80 of its 433 Northern California branches were closed.250 of 750 automatic teller machines were closed in the area.
BECHTEL CORP., San Francisco, engineering and construction concern, annual sales of $4 billion, had only minor structural damage at its three buildings in the city.its computers were knocked out.
Backup computer tapes were hand-carried to an IBM office in Philadelphia.the company expects its mainframe to be up in a few days.
sales are expected to be hurt.the losses are covered by insurance.
CHEVRON CORP., San Francisco, oil company, annual sales of $25.2 billion, NYSE, had minor damage to downtown headquarters.structural damage closed two of its seven buildings in San Ramone industrial park.
CLOROX Co., Oakland, consumer products, annual sales of $1.36 billion, NYSE, was closed yesterday but plans to reopen today or tomorrow.orders are being routed through Kingsford Products unit in Louisville, Ky.
CLOROX Co., Oakland, consumer products, annual sales of $1.36 billion, NYSE, was closed yesterday but plans to reopen today or tomorrow.orders are being routed through Kingsford Products unit in Louisville, Ky.
Meanwhile, orders are being routed through Kingsford Products unit in Louisville, Ky.computer problems mean they must be processed manually.
most of its stores to return to full operation.all 2,500 of its Bay-area workers to be back at work by today.
There was limited production of some models yesterday.it wasn't clear when the normal 750-car-a-day pace will resume.
The computer system was operating.orders could be taken.
Others had lesser damage.there were no injuries among workers.
its headquarters was closed yesterday because of power failures and lack of water.that it may reopen today.
telephones were out at its headquarters.service should be restored by today.
INTEL Corp., Santa Clara, semiconductor maker, annual sales of $2.87 billion, OTC, had some damage.few people were at work yesterday.
flooding caused by broken water pipes closed its San Jose plant.closed yesterday were the company's Santa Teresa software-development lab and the Almaden research center.
KAISER ALUMINUM & CHEMICAL, Oakland, metal and chemical maker, annual sales of $2.22 billion, had slight structural damage to its 28-story headquarters building.employees stayed home yesterday to allow crews to clean up.
The closing, affecting 266 employees, will continue.roads are cleared.
It wasn't known to what extent, if any, the facility was damaged.It wasn't known what the impact will be on the division's work.
The division had only minor damage at its Sunnyvale headquarters and plant in Palo Altos.no delays in deliveries are expected.
LONGS DRUG STORES INC., Walnut Creek, drugstore chain, annual sales of $1.9 billion, NYSE, had only minor damage.only four of its 75 Bay-area stores, all in the Santa Cruz area, were closed.
LSI LOGIC CORP., Milpitas, maker of customized integrated circuits, annual sales of $550 million, NYSE, has halted manufacturing at its three plants in the area.they are inspected for structural damage.
MEASUREX CORP., Cupertino, maker of computer integrated manufacturing processes, annual sales of $265 million, NYSE, had only minor damage.workers spent most of yesterday cleaning up.
it had no major structural damage at its 30 Bay-area buildings.two workers were injured.
PACIFIC GAS & ELECTRIC CO., San Francisco, electric, gas and water supplier, annual sales $7.6 billion, some minor damage to headquarters, undetermined damage to four nearby substations, severe structural damage to a major power plant at Moss Landing, extensive damage to gas lines and electric lines, 400,000 residences without electricity and 69,000 without gas, cannot reconnect electricity.it is certain there are no gas leaks, no predictions on when this will happen.
CHARLES SCHWAB & CO., San Francisco, discount brokerage firm, annual sales of $392 million, had only minor damage to headquarters building and was up and running for yesterday's market open.Firm will not resume 24-hour service until power in city is restored.
Firm will not, however, resume 24-hour service.power in city is restored.
Many employees stayed home yesterday.customer service was being maintained.
VARIAN ASSOCIATES INC., Palo Alto, instrumentation and semiconductor equipment company, annual sales of $1.3 billion, had only minor damage.no slowdowns were anticipated.
That was the question structural engineers and California transportation officials were asking themselves yesterday.rescue workers began the gruesome task of trying to extract as many as 250 victims from beneath the concrete slabs of the double-deck Nimitz Freeway in Oakland.
California Gov. George Deukmejian late yesterday called for an inquiry into the freeway's collapse, blaming the disaster on substandard construction.touring the area.
The impact of the destruction of this 2.5-mile stretch of highway was tragically measured in lost lives.there are other long-term effects that raise serious questions about the ability of California's infrastructure to withstand a major temblor.
It could easily be two years.the well-traveled artery that helps connect Oakland with San Francisco is reopened.
It could easily be two years before the well-traveled artery that helps connect Oakland with San Francisco is reopened.the cost to build a new stretch of highway could soar to more than $250 million.
The aftershocks of the highway tragedy are reverberating in Los Angeles as well.local politicians spoke yesterday against plans to bring double-decking to Los Angeles freeways by 1994.
Caltrans abandoned double-decking in the early 1970s, following the 1971 Sylmar earthquake that destroyed freeway sections just north of Los Angeles, Mr. O'Connell explained.why even consider stacking freeways now.
We've run out of places to build freeways in L.A.the only place to go is up.
and the only place to go is up.there are many obstacles, including cost.
there are many obstacles, including cost.as for safety double-deck freeways built today with the heavily reinforced concrete and thicker columns required after the Sylmar quake should withstand a calamitous temblor of 7.5 to 8 on the Richter scale.
Reasons for the collapse of the Nimitz Freeway were sketchy yesterday.most structural engineers attributed the destruction to improper reinforcement of the columns that supported the decks, and the fact that the ground beneath the highway is largely landfill and can become unstable, or "liquefy," in a major quake.
they apparently lacked an adequate number of metal "ties" that run horizontally through the column.the pillars did have long metal bars running vertically through them for reinforcement.
Caltrans today uses a variation of the design Mr. Parker describes, with spiraling steel rods inside.in the case of the Nimitz Freeway, the lack of such support caused the core of the columns to crumble and buckle under the weight of the second deck, crushing motorists who were lined up in bumper-to-bumper rush-hour traffic on the lower deck nearly 15 feet below.
Basically, we had a severe earthquake of significant duration.it was just something the structure couldn't withstand.
Ironically, Caltrans this year began working on a second round of seismic reinforcements of freeways around the state, this time wrapping freeway columns in "steel blankets" to reinforce them.only bridges supported with single rows of columns were top priority, and the Nimitz Freeway, supported by double rows, was left out.
But only bridges supported with single rows of columns were top priority.the Nimitz Freeway, supported by double rows, was left out.
Lionel Corp. 's board unanimously rejected a tender offer of $8 a share, or $95.4 million, for as much as 90% of Lionel by a group with a 9.9% stake in the toy retailer.Lionel urged holders of its stock and debt not to tender their securities.
Lionel also urged holders of its stock and debt not to tender their securities.Lionel said the offer by Robert I. Toussie Limited Partnership is inadequate, and full of conditions that leave it "subject to substantial uncertainty.
Lionel Corp. 's board unanimously rejected a tender offer of $8 a share, or $95.4 million, for as much as 90% of Lionel by a group with a 9.9% stake in the toy retailer..Lionel also urged holders of its stock and debt not to tender their securities, saying it wants to remain independent to pursue its business strategy..Lionel also said the offer by Robert I. Toussie Limited Partnership is inadequate, and full of conditions that leave it "subject to substantial uncertainty.Lionel began a lawsuit in federal District Court in New York seeking to enjoin the offer, alleging, among other things, violations of federal securities law and fraudulent manipulation of the market for Lionel's securities.
he would respond to Lionel's suit.his lawyers review it.
Efforts by a federal mediator to reignite talks between Boeing Co. and the Machinists union apparently failed.no further meetings are scheduled.
Company officials and union representatives didn't meet face to face.the mediator shuttled between the two groups.
it won't increase its offer.adjustments within the proposed pay-and-benefit mix are possible.
some members are getting nervous.the strike enters its 15th day today.
some members are getting nervous.the majority of the 55,000 Machinists are prepared to "wait it out as long as it takes.
he retained investment bank Lazard Freres & Co. for advice.he evaluates the possibility of making a bid for the textile maker.
Some of it was necessary to get federal help flowing to victims.some seemed designed mostly to project an image of a White House in action.
of responding too slowly.the Exxon Valdez oil tanker split open in Alaskan waters and Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolina coast.
after the Exxon Valdez oil tanker split open in Alaskan waters.Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolina coast.
Mr. Bush and his aides were accused of responding too slowly after the Exxon Valdez oil tanker split open in Alaskan waters and Hurricane Hugo struck the Carolina coast.they clearly don't want a repeat of those charges now.
and they clearly don't want a repeat of those charges now.the White House announced that Mr. Bush got his first earthquake briefing of the day at 6:30 a.m. from chief of staff John Sununu.
He visited the Hugo devastation.not until after local leaders urged him to do so.
Profit after taxes and minority interests but before extraordinary items increased 22% to #92.6 million from #75.6 million a year earlier.fully diluted earnings per share rose to 29.90 pence (47 cents) from 24.68 pence (39 cents).
its havoc hopscotched up the coast in seemingly random fashion.the epicenter of Tuesday's temblor was located 10 miles north of the town of Santa Cruz, and 50 miles south of San Francisco.
Though the epicenter of Tuesday's temblor was located 10 miles north of the town of Santa Cruz, and 50 miles south of San Francisco, its havoc hopscotched up the coast in seemingly random fashion.the greatest damage was visited on buildings and roadways perched upon landfill, as were the Marina District of San Francisco and the Bay Bridge -- two areas of maximum devastation.
Landfill -- loose and unconsolidated earth -- may feel like rock.it behaves like liquid when you shake it.
but it behaves like liquid.you shake it.
Landfill can be done.it's properly compacted.
Landfill can be done if it's properly compacted.the public policy issues raised by earthquake damage will be difficult to address.
One old building, the Golden State Bank Building on Front Street, had its yellow brick facade sheared off by the shock of the quake.piles of dusty bricks tumbled to the street below.
It's a danger We know it's there.sooner or later, we have to do something about it.
The urgency is heightened.this week's earthquake didn't release enough pent-up energy tension along the faultlines to preclude more and bigger quakes soon.
because this week's earthquake didn't release enough pent-up energy tension along the faultlines to preclude more and bigger quakes soon.major and followed by hundreds of aftershocks.
the product will be rolled out for national sales sometime next year.all goes well.
After the confusion surrounding the change of the Coke formula in 1985, Coca-Cola was reluctant to clutter the Classic name with a brand extension.now, the soft-drink giant appears willing to take the risk.
The name Classic Coke has tremendous value.they haven't merchandised that name before.
a caffeine-free Classic should help increase volume of the original brand.that the absence of new products, among other factors, has limited sales growth throughout the industry.
rescuers searched through rubble for survivors of Tuesday's temblor, and residents picked their way through glass-strewn streets.aftershocks shook the San Francisco Bay area.
rescuers searched through rubble for survivors of Tuesday's temblor.residents picked their way through glass-strewn streets.
At least 270 people were reported killed in the rush-hour tremor that caused billions of dollars of damage along 100 miles of the San Andreas fault.1,400 injured.
Bush declared the region a major disaster area.the military was mobilized to prevent looting.
The space shuttle Atlantis blasted into orbit from Cape Canaveral, Fla.its crew of five astronauts launched the nuclear-powered Galileo space probe on a flight to the planet Jupiter.
saying trade issues would be "resolved to mutual satisfaction.He said tragic results could follow any "hint of weakening" of the U.S. defense commitment to Seoul.
Per capita income rose 1.7% to $13,120.median family income fell 0.2%.
Britain's Prime Minister Thatcher told a Commonwealth summit in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, that sanctions against South Africa were "utterly irresponsible.other nations at the opening of the 49-nation meeting of Britain and its former colonies pressed for continued or stronger embargoes in an effort to end apartheid.
Christian legislators are insisting on a Syrian troop pullout from Lebanon.agreeing to political changes giving the nation's Moslems a greater role in Beirut's government.
Charles S. Mitchell, a vice president with Homart Development Co., the real estate development subsidiary of Sears, Roebuck & Co., was named president of Figgie Properties, a real estate development unit.Richard A. Barkley, a former marketing executive with FMC Corp., was appointed president of Continental Container Systems, a producer of can closing machinery that Figgie acquired late last year.
Dow is comfortable with Wall Street expectations that full-year earnings will total about $14.60 a share, compared with last year's record net of $2.4 billion, or $12.76 a share.that signal on full-year profit casts doubt on whether Dow will improve on its year-ago fourth-quarter net of $3.44 a share, or $635 million.
Dow would earn $14.85 a share for the year.it equaled that year-ago fourth-quarter performance.
Dow officials were signaling that the company would earn less than $15 a share this year.they announced in July a plan to acquire 67% of Marion Laboratories Inc.
that they make bad judicial history.great confirmation hearings turn on the nominee's response to these great cases.
the title itself is dubious.the book amply justifies its subtitle.
Mr. Bork's attackers come through more vividly than his defenders.they won.
Harvard's Laurence Tribe was the constitutional heavy, laying out legal strategies for the senators and witnesses to follow.it was Ted Kennedy who scored most effectively with his searing portrayal of "Robert Bork's America" -- the parade of imaginary horribles that would follow logically, he claimed, from the positions Mr. Bork had taken over the space of two decades.
that Mr. Bork was willing to stretch the Constitution in one area (free speech).remaining rigid in all the others.
that Mr. Bork was willing to stretch the Constitution in one area (free speech).remaining rigid in all the others.
Given Democratic frustration with the Reagan victories and Court appointments, the contingency plans in place, and Mr. Bork's paper trail of vulnerable writings, it was pretty clear that Judge Bork never stood much chance of being confirmed.The nomination might have been salvaged if a number of Democratic moderates in the South and Southwest had broken party lines.
The nomination still might have been salvaged.a number of Democratic moderates in the South and Southwest had broken party lines.
The nomination still might have been salvaged if a number of Democratic moderates in the South and Southwest had broken party lines.Democratic Sen. Bennett Johnson of Louisiana reminded the little band that anti-Bork blacks and women could furnish the margin to punish them in their next Senate elections.
Mr. Bork's opponents chose the battlefield, held it and kept it.with the smooth confirmation of Anthony Kennedy, an "80 percenter" only slightly less supportive of judicial restraint than Mr. Bork, the Democrats may have won the battle but lost the war.
Mr. Bork's opponents chose the battlefield, held it and kept it.Another upshot was the chilling message the Bork hearings sent into the judicial culture from which the Supreme Court draws its talent.
he would have found a long history going back to the great decisions of Justice Holmes.He would discover it in Alexander Bickel, a subtle constitutional scholar, Mr. Bork's closest friend at Yale.
Probing more deeply into the doctrine of "judicial restraint," he would have found a long history going back to the great decisions of Justice Holmes..He would discover it also in Alexander Bickel, a subtle constitutional scholar, Mr. Bork's closest friend at Yale, whose influence on the judge goes well beyond Mr. Bronner's reporting.the long view of Robert Bork as constitutional thinker must be a spotty one.
that must be settled judicially.it is to cohere.
that the new right to privacy will become intolerably stretched.a Supreme Court composed of men and women with realism, guts and a sense of limits should be able to manage it.
that it will be at their peril.Americans allow another happening like the degrading Bork confirmation circus.
it makes a profit.the investment bank can sell the securities at a higher price than it paid the issuer.
If the investment bank can sell the securities at a higher price than it paid the issuer, it makes a profit.At the initial sale last night the sale featuring the Impressionists masters -- bids totaled $116 million.
Normally, Sotheby's would have earned 20% of the total in commissions.the auction house opted to forgo that percentage in order to obtain the collection and in exchange for taking a bigger chunk of proceeds exceeding $100 million.
that a financial commitment of this size is unprecedented.auction houses occasionally guarantee the seller of a highly desirable work of art a minimum price.
Diana D. Brooks, president of Sotheby's North America division, vehemently denies it offered the Dorrance heirs a money-back guarantee.Buried in the glossy hardbound catalog for the sale appears the statement, "Sotheby's has an interest in the property in this catalog.
representatives of the Dorrance family "told us it was a question of financial considerations.Christie's officials asked why the firm wasn't picked to sell the Dorrance collection.
Collectors who have made their money on Wall Street have become an increasingly important part of the art business.their money has helped fuel the art boom.
Collectors who have made their money on Wall Street have become an increasingly important part of the art business and their money has helped fuel the art boom.recently it appears Sotheby's has been returning the compliment.
In November 1987, Sotheby's essentially offered a Wall Street-style "bridge loan" of about $27 million to Australian businessman Alan Bond to enable him to purchase Vincent van Gogh's "Irises" for $53.9 million..It was the highest bid in history for a work of art.two weeks ago, Sotheby's said that it has the painting under lock and key because the loan had not been fully repaid.
that it has the painting under lock and key.the loan had not been fully repaid.
Sotheby's is offering such deals.it's an art sellers' market.
There seems to be a lot of art for sale.there's more competition.
Instead the auction house opted to forgo that percentage in order to obtain the collection and in exchange for taking a bigger chunk of proceeds exceeding $100 million.The Dorrance family will receive a substantial portion of the auction proceeds above $100 million.
The Dorrance family will still receive a substantial portion of the auction proceeds above $100 million.it's likely that Sotheby's will take a higher than usual commission on the amount exceeding the guarantee.
The decision to put the entire collection on the block stunned many.Mr. Dorrance had served as chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, and it had been assumed many of the works would be donated to the institution.
since Mr. Dorrance had served as chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art.it had been assumed many of the works would be donated to the institution.
The decision to put the entire collection on the block stunned many.Sotheby's guarantee is raising eyebrows in the art world.
The decision to put the entire collection on the block stunned many.Sotheby's guarantee is raising eyebrows in the art world.
It ought not to be hidden in some small print.that he has no problem with auction houses who sell works in which they have a financial interest.
In such situations the house "is going to put the best light on things.an auction house's comments on the condition of a work of art that is up for sale should be looked at with "very open eyes.
another one will.they don't lay out a half a million for this.
that Christie's won't offer financial guarantees.the auction house sometimes waives its seller's commission.
that Christie's won't offer financial guarantees.Christie's believes its primary role is as an auction house, and therefore as an agent {for buyer and seller}, not as a bank.
its primary role is as an auction house.and as an agent {for buyer and seller}, not as a bank.
Egon Krenz, the man tapped yesterday to become East Germany's new leader, faces the same task that has fallen to neighboring socialist colleagues: reforming a country in crisis.unlike the other new leaders in the East Bloc, Mr. Krenz will face an immediate threat to his nation's very existence: German reunification.
however, he would still stand a good chance of losing a country.he were to change his stripes and become another Milton Friedman.
Mr. Krenz, age 52, is known as an old-guard ironfist, one likely to continue the method of running a country that the Berlin Wall made famous.Even if he were to change his stripes and become another Milton Friedman he would still stand a good chance of losing a country.
Faced with another Mr. Honecker, so many despairing East Germans are likely to flee that the two German peoples will get their reunification, de facto, on West German ground.if East Germany's arthritic Politburo does loosen up enough to permit Mr. Krenz to make serious efforts at reform, he will face a challenge just as fundamental.
But he will face a challenge just as fundamental.East Germany's arthritic Politburo does loosen up enough to permit Mr. Krenz to make serious efforts at reform.
Of course East Germany, true to its tradition, could tighten its borders yet further.with world-wide opinion -- even, apparently in Moscow -- against East Germany, the country would have to turn itself into an Albania to clamp down further on refugees.
There have been some reports that Mr. Krenz is moving to "soften" his reputation, notably rumors that it was he who kept East Germany's state police off protesters' backs at the country's dismal 40th anniversary celebrations earlier this month.even if he effects a Hyde-to-Jekyll transformation, he will face a serious ideological crisis and Reunification Scenario Two.
But he will face a serious ideological crisis and Reunification Scenario Two.he effects a Hyde-to-Jekyll transformation.
it can at least lean on its past.Poland moves to reform.
When Poland moves to reform, it can at least lean on its past: However flawed and short-lived Joseph Pilsudski's interwar republic, it was a nonsocialist democracy..Czech reformers can recall the Wilsonian ideals of the same period in their country..Even the Soviet Union has Peter the Great to rediscover, should it choose to.East Germany is merely "the land of truly existing socialism.
it will convert itself, willy-nilly, into an economic annex of the Federal Republic.it goes capitalist, and increases trade with West Germany.
Ideologues are the last to surrender.Germans are an ideological people.
Ideologues are the last to surrender, and Germans are an ideological people.Ideologues on the other side of the border can slow the process.
Helmut Kohl's governing conservative coalition is proving admirably true to the West German constitution by making more than 500,000 people of German descent automatic citizens this year alone.within the government and in the think tanks outside it, many West Germans maintain that they don't want immediate reunification.
Politically, this currently is wisdom -- particularly given a nervous neighboring France.it would be ironic if Germany's reunification, just like its division, eventually were the result of actions in centers of power other than Bonn and Berlin.
But it would be ironic.Germany's reunification, just like its division, eventually were the result of actions in centers of power other than Bonn and Berlin.
INSURERS ARE FACING billions of dollars in damage claims from the California quake.most businesses in the Bay area, including Silicon Valley, weren't greatly affected.
Computer and software companies in the region are expecting virtually no long-term disruption in shipments.investors quickly singled out stocks of companies expected to profit or suffer from the disaster.
A bill giving the Transportation Department the power to block airline leveraged buy-outs cleared a House panel.Secretary Skinner said he would urge Bush to veto the bill.
The buy-back, which wasn't a complete surprise, was announced.the stock market had closed.
British Airways said it is seeking improved terms and a sharply lower price in any revised bid for United Air's parent.The British carrier confirmed it isn't committed to going forward with any new bid.
Stock prices rose slightly.trading slowed.
Stock prices rose slightly as trading slowed.bonds ended little changed despite a slumping dollar.
Stock prices rose slightly.investors remain wary about stocks, partly because of turmoil in the junk-bond market.
News of the major earthquake in California Tuesday triggered a round of dollar sales in early Asian trade.the impact of the quake on financial markets to be short-lived.
he noted that "its downside potential is surprisingly and -- for dollar bulls -- "impressively" limited.Mr. Woodland doesn't predict a significant climb for the U.S. unit in light of recent moves in interest rates around the world.
that the earthquake has given the Fed an additional reason to keep liquidity at a high level.The Fed did execute $1.5 billion of liquidity-enhancing customer repurchase agreements, the third set of repurchase orders in three days.
that the dollar remains extremely vulnerable to the slightest bad news from the stock exchange.the U.S. unit edged lower as the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 13 points in early trading.
Indeed, the U.S. unit edged lower.the Dow Jones Industrial Average dropped about 13 points in early trading.
A slight recovery in the stock market gave currency traders confidence to push the dollar higher.the unit dropped back by day's end.
they could militate against easing by the Fed.the figures show a hefty rise in inflation.
Crude prices spurted upward in brisk trading on the assumption that heavy earthquake damage occurred to San Francisco area refinery complexes.the rise quickly fizzled when it became apparent that oil operations weren't severely curtailed.
but the rise quickly fizzled.it became apparent that oil operations weren't severely curtailed.
but the rise quickly fizzled.it became apparent that oil operations weren't severely curtailed.
For more than the past year, even the rumor of a major West Coast refinery shutdown has been enough to spark a futures rally.the gasoline market is so tight.
For more than the past year, even the rumor of a major West Coast refinery shutdown has been enough to spark a futures rally because the gasoline market is so tight.yesterday, as the morning wore on, some major West Coast refinery operators -- including Chevron Corp., Exxon Corp. and the Shell Oil Co. unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group -- said their refineries weren't damaged and were continuing to operate normally.
But yesterday some major West Coast refinery operators -- including Chevron Corp., Exxon Corp. and the Shell Oil Co. unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group -- said their refineries weren't damaged and were continuing to operate normally.the morning wore on.
they shut down their petroleum pipeline operations as a precaution but didn't see any immediate damage.Gasoline terminals were largely unhurt.
crude prices plunged.the news spread that the refineries were intact.
One is the panic, the earthquake in San Francisco, which is positive.once that factor was eliminated, traders took profits and focused on crude oil inventories.
But traders took profits and focused on crude oil inventories.that factor was eliminated.
the American Petroleum Institute had reported that crude stocks increased by 5.7 million barrels in the week ended Friday, which traders viewed as bearish.the market closed Tuesday.
But once that factor was eliminated, traders took profits and focused on crude oil inventories.some market players still think earthquake speculation could have more impact on the oil markets.
was there any structural damage to the pipelines or anything else.on the surface everything is all right.
which hasn't been operating.it was declared bankrupt by the Mexican government in late August.
it will take about two to three months.the mine begins to produce copper in significant quantities.
that the Highland Valley mine strike in British Columbia is regarded as settled.there hasn't been any official announcement as yet.
the Cananea return to operation may not be as near as some expect.the increasing likelihood that these two major supply disruptions will be resolved weighed on the market.
that the Japanese, as well as the Chinese, bought copper earlier in the week in London.that this purchasing has since slackened as the supply situation, at least over the long term, appears to have improved.
but that this purchasing has since slackened.the supply situation, at least over the long term, appears to have improved.
The focus for some time has been on the copper supply.good demand has been taken for granted.
it would be best for traders to switch their concentration to the demand side.the supply situation seems to be improving.
It's known they need the sugar.the expectation that they will come in is apparently giving the market its principal support.
Feedlots fatten cattle for slaughter.a drop indicates that the production of beef will dip this winter.
Feedlots fatten cattle for slaughter, so a drop indicates that the production of beef will dip this winter.some analysts expect the government to report that the movement of young cattle onto feedlots in the month of September in seven big ranch states dropped 8% compared with the level for September 1988.
The drug, which is still in the experimental phase, hasn't been approved yet by the Food and Drug Admistration.its long-term effects are unknown.
The drug, which is still in the experimental phase, hasn't been approved yet by the Food and Drug Admistration, and its long-term effects are unknown.the drug, called FK-506, could revolutionize the transplantation field by reducing harmful side effects and by lowering rejection rates.
We're shocked by it.it's worked so fast.
they believe FK-506 is 100 times more effective than the traditional anti-rejection drug, cyclosporine, made by Swiss pharmaceutical giant Sandoz Ltd.They are encouraged by the relatively mild side effects of FK-506, compared with cyclosporine, which can cause renal failure, morbidity, nausea and other problems.
that FK-506 would not be available in the market for at least a year.that the FDA approval process usually takes three years to five years.
the cost of the drug.it reaches the market.
Researchers couldn't estimate the cost of the drug when it reaches the market.they said FK-506 will enable patients to cut hospital stays by 50% and reduce the number of blood tests used to monitor the dosage of cyclosporine and other drugs among transplant recipients.
the research has been largely financed by the National Institute of Health and by university funds.that Fujisawa didn't give the hospital any grants.
We've known for six months the effect of this drug.our advice to our people has been not to buy the company's stock.
According to Mr. Laband, "screaming" for price controls occurs.income redistribution "threatens to hit home.
According to Mr. Laband, "screaming" for price controls occurs when income redistribution "threatens to hit home.in Mr. Laband's rehash of free-market logic, human greed and self-interest are the only permissible psychological reactions.
when income redistribution "threatens to hit home.Allowing uncontrolled prices for necessities would shorten the lines at stores.
Allowing uncontrolled prices for necessities would indeed shorten the lines at stores.not because resources are going to their most efficient use, leaving scarce goods "allocated to those buyers who place the highest value on them." Rather, lines would diminish because at higher prices many victims could not afford necessities such as food and medical supplies.
Allowing uncontrolled prices for necessities would indeed shorten the lines at stores.But resources are going to their most efficient use, leaving scarce goods "allocated to those buyers who place the highest value on them.
But not because resources are going to their most efficient use, leaving scarce goods "allocated to those buyers who place the highest value on them.lines would diminish because at higher prices many victims could not afford necessities such as food and medical supplies.
Rather, lines would diminish.at higher prices many victims could not afford necessities such as food and medical supplies.
that a poor, unemployed woman cannot receive immediate relief for her family at fair prices.she does not have as much to protect as a rich family.
It is inhumane to imply that a poor, unemployed woman cannot receive immediate relief for her family at fair prices because she does not have as much to protect as a rich family.essential relief supplies such as ice must be distributed throughout the population because of potential health problems from spoiled food and possible outbreak of disease.
These latter-day scalawags would be ill-advised to take advantage of the situation.they ever expect to face the people of South Carolina again.
South Carolina deserves an A for its quick and timely relief efforts.Mr. Laband gets an A for his rote recital of economic-efficiency arguments.
South Carolina deserves an A for its quick and timely relief efforts.Mr. Laband gets an A for his rote recital of economic-efficiency arguments.
They set up absurd situations, detached from reality.and try to reason from them.
I'm surprised he didn't advocate letting people loot.that behavior can also be foreseen in a disaster and "every individual has an incentive to alter the distribution of income in his favor.
since that behavior can also be foreseen in a disaster.every individual has an incentive to alter the distribution of income in his favor.
Price controls were "so fervently embraced by Charleston.price gouging in this situation is equivalent to looting.
we face.dealing with disasters such as Hugo.
he didn't mention certain other of their effects.he concentrated on the economic folly of such ordinances.
They divert law-enforcement resources at a time they are most needed for protecting lives and property.rather than increase supplies, they reduce them and encourage hoarding.
They divert law-enforcement resources at a time they are most needed for protecting lives and property..Also, rather than increase supplies, they reduce them and encourage hoarding.they, or even the prospect of them, discourage disaster preparedness in the form of speculative advance stocking of supplies by merchants.
Would Mr. Laband also suggest that the Red Cross, Salvation Army, military units, police, fire departments, rescue units and individual citizens cease their efforts to assist Hugo's victims.they interfere with his concept of the "free market.
Should they, too, stop "messing with" his free market.they should sell to the highest bidder.
What about those caring people all over the country who are donating food, water and other necessities of life to these people who could be any of us.what about insurance firms.
Mr. Laband should beware.he lives in South Carolina.
The businesses subscribing to Mr. Laband's effective price system will be remembered.normalcy returns.
a revival of the Organic Theater's production of "Bleacher Bums," a play in nine innings set in the Wrigley Field bleachers, continues within spitting distance of the ballpark.the Cubs' championship season ended with the National League playoffs.
a revival of the Organic Theater's production of "Bleacher Bums," a play in nine innings set in the Wrigley Field bleachers, continues within spitting distance of the ballpark.Revivals of a different sort are being offered by our two major theater troupes, the Goodman and Steppenwolf.
Each is more problematic than an unexpected divisional baseball championship.both help explain why Chicago remains a vital center of this country's regional theater movement.
Twenty-five years ago the poet Richard Wilbur modernized this 17th-century comedy merely by avoiding "the zounds sort of thing.the scene remained Celimene's house in 1666.
and even better seen in the theater.you ever have the opportunity.
The Wilbur translation is remarkable -- well worth a read and even better seen in the theater if you ever have the opportunity.if you happen to be coming to Chicago in the next few weeks, don't fail to have a look at Robert Falls's "The Misanthrope" at the Goodman.
But don't fail to have a look at Robert Falls's "The Misanthrope" at the Goodman.you happen to be coming to Chicago in the next few weeks.
Mr. Falls's production is a mirror in which we see ourselves.Mr. Wilbur's translation is a finely ground lens through which we see the pettiness and corruption of 17th-century Paris.
this version, with its references to Steven Spielberg, Spago and "thirtysomething" attracts younger audiences.Messrs..Bartlett and Falls are justified in abandoning Mr. Wilbur.
actors and directors were reverential.The Homecoming" was first produced on this side of the Atlantic.
Nobody smiled onstage.nobody in the audience was encouraged to laugh.
This kind of theater was new to us.it was not a funny time over here, what with the Vietnam War, the '68 Democratic convention, assassinations and riots.
When "The Homecoming" was first produced on this side of the Atlantic, actors and directors were reverential.under Jerry Perry's direction the current Steppenwolf production breaks through the flat and boring ritual that "The Homecoming" had become.
the audience gets the joke and begins to laugh.the end of the first act.
now none of the other male residents of this misbegotten household can challenge Max.it's clearly Max's wife who held sway here until her death.
Bruce Sagan, the president of its board of directors, quietly returned to Chicago to buy a piece of real estate in the city's rapidly reviving North Halsted Street restaurant and theater district.Steppenwolf was in London with "The Grapes of Wrath.
Willie Loman would have to live in a ranch house because of the low ceiling.we wanted to stage `Death of a Salesman.
His board members alone have pledged $800,000.he is just beginning to massage local foundations and corporations.
Mr. Sagan compares the importance of Steppenwolf with Orson Welles's Mercury Theater in the '30s.Welles's theater company turned out to have a brief -- one might say a mercurial -- existence.
What will Mr. Sagan do with his new theater building.the allure of Hollywood and Broadway proves too much for such Steppenwolf stalwarts as John Malkovich ("Dangerous Liaisons"), Joan Allen ("The Heidi Chronicles"), and Glenne Headly ("Lonesome Dove"), and the company crumbles.
the beleaguered Nasdaq over-the-counter market finally rebounded, rising sharply in hearty trading.enduring three days of heavy selling.
Among bigger stocks, the Nasdaq 100 Index rose 1%, or 4.56, to 453.05.the Dow Jones Industrial Average was up 0.2%.
the OTC market tumbled.the industrial average rallied on Monday following last Friday's collapse.
shares of a number of companies that might either profit or face problems because of the disaster were actively traded.investors speculated about the long- and short-term implications.
Insurance-related stocks were mixed.investors tried to figure out how to assess the impact of the property damage and deaths on those concerns.
to sell early.to begin buying them aggressively.
to begin buying them aggressively.the stocks fell sharply.
that the companies that insure against property damage and accidents will have to raise rates eventually to compensate for the claims they will pay to earthquake victims and victims of last month's Hurricane Hugo.reinsurers and insurance brokerage companies will have improved profits.
Many investors expected damage from the hurricane to be the catalyst for higher rates in the industry.the hurricane damage wasn't extensive enough to prompt premium boosts.
Now, they'll have to increase their coffers to protect for the future.that means rate increases.
Safeco fell 1/8 to 32 5/8 on 462,900 shares..Ohio Casualty rose 1/4 to 51 3/4 on 137,200 shares..St. Paul Cos. jumped 2 to 59 3/4 on 517,500 shares..Academy Insurance fell 1/32 to 1 3/16; but volume totaled 1.2 million shares..The Nasdaq Insurance Index jumped 4.15 to 529.32 on the day, while the barometer of big insurance and banking issues climbed 1.72 to 455.29.OTC insurance issues were mixed.
Academy Insurance fell 1/32 to 1 3/16.volume totaled 1.2 million shares.
The Nasdaq Insurance Index jumped 4.15 to 529.32 on the day.the barometer of big insurance and banking issues climbed 1.72 to 455.29.
Traders were initially nervous about shares of companies, including many leading OTC computer companies, such as Apple Computer with offices in the vicinity of the area damaged by the quake.most of those stocks fared well.
Ashton-Tate rose 3/8 to 10 3/8.Intel added 3/8 to 33 7/8.
Apple Computer gained 1 to 48 1/4; Ashton-Tate rose 3/8 to 10 3/8 Intel also added 3/8 to 33 7/8.Sun Microsystems slipped 1/4 to 17 1/4.
But most of those stocks fared well.Shares of biotechnology companies in the area were higher.
Chiron was up 1/2 to 27.Cetus gained 1/2 to 16 3/8.
Microsoft advanced 1 7/8 to 80 1/2.Lotus Development added 1 1/4 to 32 1/2.
In other earthquake-related news, Hambrecht & Quist's OTC market makers were excused from trading yesterday.its positions were frozen for the day by the National Association of Securities Dealers.
In other trading, Medco Containment Services gained 7/8 to 15 on 1.9 million shares.reporting a loss for the first quarter, which ended Sept. 30.
Ciba-Geigy Ltd. and Chiron Corp. said they extended their offer for Connaught BioSciences Inc., valued at 866 million Canadian dollars (US$736 million) to Oct. 27.The companies said they didn't want to raise their offer to match a rival bid by Institut Merieux S.A. of C$37 a share, or C$942 million.
they didn't want to raise their offer to match a rival bid by Institut Merieux S.A. of C$37 a share, or C$942 million.the C$30-a-share bid, which was due to expire Monday, may still be extended or varied.
which was due to expire Monday.the C$30-a-share bid may be extended or varied.
I called Sen. Bill Bradley of New Jersey, advised him that the Dow Jones Industrial Average had declined by 190 points late that afternoon, and cheerfully informed him that he and his fellow Democrats were to blame.the stock market closed Friday.
which had seemed in the bag.it passed the House overwhelmingly earlier in the month.
Sen. Bradley has it in his mind that such a tax cut would unravel the tax reform he helped engineer in 1986.he knows that as many as 20 of his fellow Democrats are disposed to vote for the cut, popular among their constituents.
But he knows that as many as 20 of his fellow Democrats are disposed to vote for the cut, popular among their constituents.he took the lead in arguing that the cut should be blocked on procedural grounds.
The budget reconciliation had to be dealt with by the Oct. 15 deadline.these Senate Democrats refused to agree to allow a vote to append capital gains to the budget bill, knowing it would pass.
It could throw in the towel and hope to win on capital gains late this month.it could follow the White House strategy, to veto reconciliation unless capital gains was appended.
to veto reconciliation.capital gains was appended.
that the White House would not agree to a budget reconciliation bill.it had firm assurances that a vote on substance would be permitted in the Senate.
He left a message accusing Mr. Darman of selling out.It was the Senate Republicans who had edged away from the veto strategy.
crumbling.it absorbed the news that Mr. Darman's strategy had been abandoned.
wouldn't the value fall to the owners of the assets.the tax on any gain to those assets was doubled.
that the asset you own would be worth more.the government suddenly announced that if you sold it, you would be able to keep 30% more of its gain than you previously believed.
that you would be able to keep 30% more of its gain than you previously believed.you sold it.
Isn't it reasonable to assume that the asset you own would be worth more if the government suddenly announced that if you sold it, you would be able to keep 30% more of its gain than you previously believed.the stock market's steady advance this year tracked with President Bush's success in advancing his capital-gains proposal.
he was generally ignored and mildly ridiculed.Richard Rahn advised the financial press that the market crash was caused by the setback to capital gains.
that the market crash was caused by the setback to capital gains.that a snag in the takeover financing of United Airlines instantly knocked 7% off the value of the nation's capital stock and caused convulsions around the world.
Mr. Rahn was pointing out an elephant rumbling through Wall Street.conventional wisdom had fastened on the UAL flea.
who sympathize with the view that a capital-gains tax cut benefits the rich.they somehow think that Wall Street is indifferent to losing the tax cut.
It would inevitably lead to an increase in marginal income-tax rates in 1990.the White House is forced to ask for higher taxes to meet budget targets.
That is, with capital gains cut, the glue of the 1986 accord will be gone.political realities will push up income-tax rates.
that the revenue gap will open up tremendously in 1990 because of the weakened economy.he and his fellow Democrats are successful in killing the president's proposal.
though, it would pass, Christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market, the 1990 economy would be robust, and the revenue gains at every level of government, including New Jersey's, would be surprisingly high.Sen. Bradley would permit a vote on capital gains.
In this atmosphere, there would be no serious consideration of tax increases.If Sen. Bradley would permit a vote on capital gains it would pass, Christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market, the 1990 economy would be robust, and the revenue gains at every level of government, including New Jersey's, would be surprisingly high.
it would pass, Christmas retail sales would be strong instead of burdened by a falling stock market, the 1990 economy would be robust.the revenue gains at every level of government, including New Jersey's, would be surprisingly high.
Two other defendants previously pleaded guilty.charges against the third were dropped.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
Proceeds from the bonds, with coupon rates in the 8% range, will be used to replace bonds with an average interest rate of 13.1%.The $4 billion bond issue will help the TVA meet its goal of not raising rates for another year.
The bond issue is TVA's first public offering since the Financing Bank was created in 1974, primarily to finance the TVA.the offering almost didn't happen.
But the offering almost didn't happen.The TVA decided to proceed with the bond offering following an agreement last week with the Financing Bank, which allows TVA to keep borrowing short term from the bank for two years after it goes to the public market.
TVA to keep borrowing short term from the bank for two years.it goes to the public market.
Why did he add the Value Fund to the list.he's very bullish on the emerging growth stocks that make up the fund's portfolio.
Emerging growth stocks haven't been popular in America for years, they've been neglected.their prices often trail the market as a whole.
Mr. Templeton's 147,300-share purchase in the closed-end fund came before the U.S. stock market's plunge last Friday.but proved slightly profitable.
but still proved slightly profitable.Mr. Templeton received a dividend of 22 cents a share Oct. 5.
Mr. Sherry declined to comment.asked about the sales.
James A. Toney, a vice president, sold 1,500 shares Aug. 28.He has 1,143 shares, according to SEC files.
Mr. Sherry declined to comment when asked about the sales.Mr. Toney declined to comment.
who bought 4,400 shares for $125,075.who is president of Taft Broadcasting Co.
he bought the shares.he keeps a utility account at the brokerage firm of Salomon Brothers Inc., which had recommended the stock as a good buy.
Cincinnati Gas & Electric is in good shape.utilities are "a good investment because interest rates are going down.
and utilities are "a good investment.interest rates are going down.
Glenn and Sharon Beebe of Cincinnati had sued the com- pany in 1981.installing Burlington carpets in their office.
that toxic fumes from the carpets made them sick..As a result of their illness they lost $1.8 million in wages and earnings.that months of exposure to the chemicals has left them sensitive to a wide range of commonly used substances.
The case had been closely watched.attorneys anticipate increasing litigation nationally over the so-called sick-building syndrome.
that buildings become "sick.inadequate fresh air and poor ventilation systems lead pollutants to build up inside.
that ill effects from new carpets manifest themselves immediately.that the Beebes' symptoms appeared months later.
Scientists are only beginning to understand what causes sick-building syndrome.much of that research was unavailable when the Beebes filed the case.
and much of that research was unavailable.the Beebes filed the case.
The Beebes now believe that a prime culprit for their injuries was fumes from an adhesive used in the carpeting.the Beebes didn't come to that conclusion until time limits had elapsed for adding the adhesives maker as a defendant in the case.
But the Beebes didn't come to that conclusion.time limits had elapsed for adding the adhesives maker as a defendant in the case.
State officials said the court's ruling clears the way for proceedings to condemn buildings in the area.developers of four planned office towers cautioned that obstacles still remain.
they would not proceed with condemnation proceedings.there was "significant litigation" pending.
the development team will have to review two additional lawsuits.putting up a $155 million letter of credit to cover condemnation costs.
the development team will have to review two additional lawsuits before putting up a $155 million letter of credit to cover condemnation costs.the partnership is waiting to see whether the appellate division's ruling will be appealed.
ruling that the attack had been a political act.Judge Weinstein wrote in his opinion late last month that terrorism and acts of war against civilians cannot be defined as political acts.
However, Judge Weinstein wrote in his opinion late last month that terrorism and acts of war against civilians cannot be defined as political acts.Judge Weinstein ruled that judges must consider prior to extradition whether the defendant will be treated fairly in a foreign court.
THE YOM KIPPUR WAR, WHEN EGYPT CRASHED into Israel on Oct. 6, 1973, the holiest day in the Jewish calendar, lasted barely a month.one far-afield effect is still with us.
Texas simply pumped harder.U.S. oil supplies had peaked in 1970 and 1971 and by 1973 were declining.
U.S. oil supplies, however, had peaked in 1970 and 1971 and by 1973 were declining..Imports, then six million barrels a day, came primarily from Venezuela and Canada.Middle East supplies were growing in importance.
no one can tell its source.oil is shipped.
The U.S. did manage to supply the Dutch with oil by relabeling supplies.car-happy Americans panicked, and so did the U.S. and other oil-consuming governments.
But car-happy Americans panicked.so did the U.S. and other oil-consuming governments.
Shortage" and "crisis" became buzz words.neither really applied.
The spot dislocations that showed up were largely the result of confusion (much of it in Washington.that was cold comfort for drivers waiting in mile-long lines at the gas pumps.
The embargo lasted only six months.the price hikes became a fact of life.
Times may be tough on Wall Street for some.a few bosses are making as much as ever -- or more.
but a few bosses are making as much as ever -- or more.At Bear Stearns Cos. the 15 executive officers led by Chairman Alan "Ace" Greenberg got a pay increase to $35.9 million for the 14-month period ended June 30 from $22.9 million for the 12 months ended April 30, 1988.
Bear Stearns's yearly filings are available much earlier than those of other firms.it operates on a fiscal year.
The latest period includes 14 months instead of 12.Bear Stearns changed to a fiscal year ending in June instead of April.
At Bear Stearns Cos., for example, the 15 executive officers led by Chairman Alan "Ace" Greenberg got a pay increase to $35.9 million for the 14-month period ended June 30 from $22.9 million for the 12 months ended April 30, 1988.Bear Stearns's 650 stock and bond salesmen saw thinner paychecks over the past year.
which the company says reflected lower commission revenue caused by a decline in investor activity in the markets.Bear Stearns on Monday reported improved earnings for its first quarter partly because of a 31% increase in commissions during the quarter.
All of us are on a base salary of $200,000 if the firm makes nothing.that's pretty low as far as Wall Street goes.
All of us are on a base salary of $200,000 if the firm makes nothing -- and that's pretty low as far as Wall Street goes.Bear Stearns has never had an unprofitable year since its founding 65 years ago.
According to the proxy statement, James E. Cayne, 55, Bear Stearns's president, made $3.9 million; an executive vice president, Michael L. Tarnopol, 53, made nearly $3.4 million.two executive vice presidents, Vincent J. Mattone, 44, and William J. Michaelcheck, 42, made about $3.3 million each.
doesn't mean the executive committee should be paid less.a particular element of the firm is down," such as stockbrokerage.
his move to the chairmanship means he will take a less active role in the day-to-day management of the group.that the merchant bank's strategic focus remains unchanged.
Mr. Craven joined Morgan Grenfell as group chief executive in May 1987.the resignations of former Chief Executive Christopher Reeves and other top officials because of the merchant bank's role in Guinness PLC's controversial takeover of Distiller's Co. in 1986.
Morgan Grenfell Group PLC said John Craven, group chief executive officer, is taking over the chairmanship of the merchant banking group from Sir Peter Carey, who is retiring.The merchant bank announced that finance director David Eward is taking early retirement for personal reasons.
News of Mr. Eward's retirement comes.Morgan said that Christopher Whittington resigned as chairman of Morgan's banking subsidiary to join a financial services firm.
both Messrs..Eward and Whittington had planned to leave the bank earlier.Mr. Craven had persuaded them to remain until the bank was in a healthy position.
to remain.the bank was in a healthy position.
it's that they are leaving at a time when the business is in reasonably good shape and going forward very well.there's any coincidence about the departures.
The bonds have received a rating of double-A-1 from Moody's.a double-A-plus rating is expected from S&P.
Par Pharmaceutical Inc. said it named its interim president and chief executive officer, Kenneth I. Sawyer, to those posts permanently, and elected him to the board.Par said it was advised by the U.S. attorney for Maryland that it is one of a number of companies being investigated by a federal grand jury for alleged violations of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
he understood the criminal investigation in Maryland relates to matters Par disclosed in July.he understood that the inquiry related to the existence of an "off-the-record" production book.
that it is one of a number of companies being investigated by a federal grand jury for alleged violations of the federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.yesterday, Ashok Patel, a former Par official who pleaded guilty to providing an FDA employee an illegal gratuity of $3,000, was sentenced by a federal judge in Baltimore to one year of community service and a $150,000 fine.
Also yesterday, Ashok Patel, a former Par official who pleaded guilty to providing an FDA employee an illegal gratuity of $3,000, was sentenced by a federal judge in Baltimore to one year of community service and a $150,000 fine.Mr. Patel was placed on three years' probation.
That's essentially what budget director Richard Darman is suggesting.we think he deserves as much support as he can get.
let the computers do it.human beings can't cut federal spending honestly.
If human beings can't cut federal spending honestly.they can't.
Congress, with a measure of White House complicity, has been manipulating the spending accounts for years under the cover of omnibus appropriations bills.without earlier manipulations, the current sequester of $16 billion would have been even larger.
We suspect voters are fed up with the finagling.that even yesterday's widely publicized sequester is likely to be traduced if business as usual is allowed to prevail.
that even yesterday's widely publicized sequester is likely to be traduced.business as usual is allowed to prevail.
Under the law, Gramm-Rudman's across-the-board-cuts in federal programs are supposed to be permanent.Lawmakers have been saying for weeks that they plan to roll back the cuts as soon as they agree to a compromise on a deficit-cutting bill.
that they plan to roll back the cuts.they agree to a compromise on a deficit-cutting bill.
Mr. Bush would be acting in the public interest.he let the Washington elites who manipulate these budgets -- the bureaucrats, the lobbyists, the congressional staffers -- live for just one year on a restricted diet.
Americans will be engulfed in a red sea of new spending programs, such as federalized child care.Washington's elites ever succeed in bursting the tax dam.
Child care was one of the many "extraneous" bills pulled out of the Senate's reconciliation bill last Friday..Others were the capital-gains cut, Section 89 repeal, the disabled workers bill, and the unprecedented reconsideration of the catastrophic health act.All this stuff is in the House's 1,878-page reconciliation bill.
All this stuff still is in the House's 1,878-page reconciliation bill.many Members say they're reluctant to pull out cherished bills, just to see them die.
that the bridges got build, roads paved, soldiers paid.that the desperately poor were cared for.
Those days are gone.that a metropolitan Washington that has gotten fat and rich and lazy in the shadow of the federal colossus will change much on its own initiative.
Save the sequester.let Washington scream.
Japanese investors, reassured by Monday's strong rally on Wall Street, erased most of that day's losses on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.the rebound didn't remove the cautious mood from the market.
In London, stocks closed lower in volatile trading.an opening rally was obliterated by worse-than-expected U.S. trade figures.
In London, stocks closed lower in volatile trading.an opening rally was obliterated by worse-than-expected U.S. trade figures.
Paris shares had a similar reaction.most other European bourses posted gains, as did all major Asian and Pacific stock markets.
Foreign investors reportedly started off selling.but joined in the buying.
Nothing has changed fundamentally in the Tokyo market.there are still a few concerns on the horizon.
there are still a few concerns on the horizon.Tokyo appears unharmed by recent market volatility.
there are still a few concerns on the horizon.whether Monday's 88.12-point rally holds up as fresh U.S. economic data are released.
whether Monday's 88.12-point rally holds up.fresh U.S. economic data are released.
that many Tokyo investors now feel safer with domestically oriented stocks.They are concerned about the persistent strength of the dollar against the yen.
They also are concerned about the persistent strength of the dollar against the yen.a weaker yen leads to higher import prices in Japan and adds to domestic inflationary pressures.
They also are concerned about the persistent strength of the dollar against the yen, as a weaker yen leads to higher import prices in Japan and adds to domestic inflationary pressures.Currency concerns weigh heavily on interest rate-sensitive stocks such as banking and other financial issues because of fears that Japanese interest rates might have to rise to keep the dollar in check.
Among steel shares, NKK rose 19 to 705 yen ($4.97) a share.Nippon Steel gained 17 to 735.
In the real estate sector, Mitsui Real Estate Development was up 100 at 2,760.Mitsubishi Estate gained 80 to 2,360.
Prices opened strongly on the basis of Monday's Wall Street rally and yesterday's gains in Tokyo.the advance faltered as index-options traders and investors jittery about the U.K. economic outlook took over.
But the advance faltered.index-options traders and investors jittery about the U.K. economic outlook took over.
you wish you hadn't.you bought.
If you bought, you wish you hadn't.if you sold, you wish you hadn't.
and you wish you hadn't.you sold.
the current market "is all about sentiment.the sentiment in London is 90% anxiety and worry.
London showed signs of calming in midafternoon.Wall Street avoided sharp losses despite the trade report.
London showed signs of calming in midafternoon after Wall Street avoided sharp losses despite the trade report.a wave of futures-related selling later in the session sent buyers back to the sidelines.
but a wave of futures-related selling later in the session sent buyers back to the sidelines.some sectors found buying interest after being actively sold in recent weeks.
Still, some sectors found buying interest.being actively sold in recent weeks.
Hambros rose 5 to 204.Schroders rose 25 to #12.75.
Jaguar shares jumped 23.easing to close at 654, up 6.
Brewery stocks were firm to higher on talk of early bargain-hunting.most ended below their peaks.
Bass ended up 3 higher at 966, Guinness closed at 589, down 7.Scottish & Newcastle dropped 11 to 359.
Bass ended up 3 higher at 966, Guinness closed at 589, down 7, and Scottish & Newcastle dropped 11 to 359.Whitbread Class A shares rose 17 to 363.
British Gas finished at 197, down 2, on 13 million shares, British Petroleum fell 8 to 291 on 9.4 million shares.British Telecom was 4 lower at 261 on turnover of 10 million shares.
The most active shares were major blue-chips, particularly oils and utilities such as British Gas and British Telecommunications.in active trading, British Steel fell 1 to 124 as 20 million shares changed hands.
Also in active trading, British Steel fell 1 to 124.20 million shares changed hands.
Paris closed lower.most Brussels shares were unable to trade for a second consecutive day because of technical problems.
After all, they won't soon forget the stock bargains that became available after the October 1987 crash.while they want to be on the alert for similar buying opportunities now, they're afraid of being hammered by another terrifying plunge.
But they're afraid of being hammered by another terrifying plunge.they want to be on the alert for similar buying opportunities now.
by purchasing a stock.and buying a put option on that stock.
the investor is protected against a sudden drop in the stock's price.a put option gives its owner the right, but not the obligation, to sell a fixed number of shares of the stock at a stated price on or before the option's expiration date.
Because a put option gives its owner the right, but not the obligation, to sell a fixed number of shares of the stock at a stated price on or before the option's expiration date, the investor is protected against a sudden drop in the stock's price.most investment advisers don't recommend using married puts all the time.
That's.the cost of buying put options eats into an investor's profit when stock prices rise.
because the cost of buying put options eats into an investor's profit.stock prices rise.
you only buy.the nearby woods are on fire.
You always want your house insured.you don't always feel the need for your investments to be insured.
the put will probably expire worthless.the stock goes up in price between now and the put's expiration date.
The investor will be out the cost of the put, which is called the "premium.this loss will reduce the stock-market profit.
the investor's loss will be limited to the cost of the put, less any amount realized from a closing sale of the put.the stock stays at the same price between now and the put's expiration date.
the put will increase in value.the price of the stock declines.
the gain will match the loss on the stock dollar for dollar.the stock price is less than the exercise price, or "strike price," of the put.
the investor simply sells the stock at a loss and simultaneously sells the put at a profit.a stock falls below the put's strike price.
the investor simply sells the stock at a loss.and sells the put at a profit.
When a stock falls below the put's strike price, the investor simply sells the stock at a loss and simultaneously sells the put at a profit.the investor can exercise the put, by tendering the stock to his or her broker in return for payment from another investor who has sold a put on the same stock.
an investor should know that the cost of the option insurance can be partially offset by any dividends that the stock pays.Tenneco Inc. pays a quarterly dividend of 76 cents, which would be received before the February option expires and, thus, reduce the cost of using the technique by that amount.
which would be received.the February option expires.
which would be received before the February option expires.and reduce the cost of using the technique by that amount.
There are more than 650 stocks on which options may be bought and sold, including some over-the-counter stocks.some investors might prefer a simpler strategy then hedging their individual holdings.
They can do this by purchasing "index puts," which are simply put options on indexes that match broad baskets of stocks.the most popular index option is the S&P 100 option, commonly called the OEX.
Unlike options on individual issues, index options are settled only in cash.no stock is ever tendered.
Unlike options on individual issues, index options are settled only in cash, and no stock is ever tendered.while index options are convenient, they have several disadvantages.
But they have several disadvantages.index options are convenient.
For one thing, an investor's portfolio might not closely match the S&P 100.the OEX insurance may or may not fully protect an investor's holdings in the event of a market decline.
For one thing, an investor's portfolio might not closely match the S&P 100..As a result, the OEX insurance may or may not fully protect an investor's holdings in the event of a market decline.OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon, after the stock-market sell-off got under way and trading in the S&P-500 futures contract was halted..So an investor who wanted to realize a profit on OEX puts after the trading suspension would have been out of luck.
In addition, OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon.the stock-market sell-off got under way and trading in the S&P-500 futures contract was halted.
after the stock-market sell-off got under way.trading in the S&P-500 futures contract was halted.
In addition, OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon.an investor who wanted to realize a profit on OEX puts after the trading suspension would have been out of luck.
who wanted to realize a profit on OEX puts.the trading suspension.
In addition, OEX options were suspended from trading last Friday afternoon.only a handful of individual issues were suspended from trading on Friday.
Normally the options on those investments also don't trade.the underlying investment is suspended from trading.
Normally, once the underlying investment is suspended from trading.the options on those investments don't trade.
Ultimately, whether the insurance provided by purchasing puts is worthwhile depends on the cost of the options..That cost rises in times of high market volatility.it still might be cheaper than taking a major hit.
A call option is similar to a put.that it gives its owner the right to buy shares at a stated price until expiration.
That's.it reduces the cost of the stock by the amount of premium received from the sale of the call.
Selling a call option gives an investor a small buffer against a stock-market decline.if the price of the stock rises above the strike price of the option, the stock is almost certain to be called away..And in that case, the investor misses out on any major upside gain.
But the stock is almost certain to be called away.the price of the stock rises above the strike price of the option.
But if the price of the stock rises above the strike price of the option, the stock is almost certain to be called away.in that case, the investor misses out on any major upside gain.
Hopes for quick enactment of pending deficit-reduction legislation faded.efforts to streamline the House version in advance of a House-Senate conference broke down.
by getting an agreement from House committee chairmen under which they would drop items that wouldn't reduce the fiscal 1990 budget deficit from the House-passed bill.the negotiations with the Senate began.
House leaders had hoped to follow the Senate's lead by getting an agreement from House committee chairmen under which they would drop items that wouldn't reduce the fiscal 1990 budget deficit from the House-passed bill before the negotiations with the Senate began.the effort became snagged on the question of what would become of other issues, ranging from cutting the capital-gains tax to child care to repeal of catastrophic-illness insurance.
it is conditioned on their desire to see them passed in another form.there is any support for reducing the bill.
he would continue to press to keep the capital-gains provision in the final version of the bill.the House drops many of its costly provisions.
Senate leaders had hoped to be able to send a compromise version of the measure to President Bush by the end of the week.Speaker Foley said that wasn't likely.
The bill must be enacted.the cuts can be restored.
Under a proposed two-step amalgamation involving share swaps, ABM Gold Corp., a gold exploration and management company, will merge with Neptune Resources Corp., United Gold Corp. and Inca Resources Inc.ABM will increase its stake in Sonora Gold Corp. to 42% from 26%.
Exports fell for the second month in a row.imports rose to a record.
we've had.the dollar troughed out in 1987.
Like most analysts, Mr. Dennis was hesitant to read too much into one month's numbers.he said, "It indicates perhaps that the balance in the U.S. economy is not as good as we've been led to believe.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled more than 60 points.the report's release.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled more than 60 points.the report's release.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average tumbled more than 60 points after the report's release.recovering to close 18.65 points lower at 2638.73.
The trade report drew yet another unsettling parallel to October 1987.In 1987 the news was the latest in a string of disappointments on trade.
In 1987, however, the news was the latest in a string of disappointments on trade.the current report comes after a period of improvement.
Commerce Secretary Robert Mosbacher called the worsening trade figures "disappointing after two very good months.White House spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the deficit was "an unwelcome increase," adding that "we're hopeful that it simply is a one-month situation and will turn around.
The bleak trade report was played down by the Bush administration.the figures reinforced the view of many private analysts that the improvement in the U.S. trade deficit has run out of steam.
that the improvement in the U.S. trade deficit has essentially stalled out at a level of about a $110 billion annual rate.That's an improvement over last year.
That's still an improvement over last year.it leads one to conclude that basically we've gotten all the mileage we can out of past dollar depreciation and past marginal cuts in the federal budget deficit.
Exports declined for the second consecutive month in August, slipping 0.2% to $30.41 billion.Imports leaped 6.4% to a record $41.18 billion.
Not only was August's deficit far worse than July's.the government revised the July figure substantially from the $7.58 billion deficit it had initially reported last month.
that deep cuts in the U.S. budget deficit are needed.further trade improvement can occur.
That's.the budget deficit feeds an enormous appetite in this country for both foreign goods and foreign capital, overwhelming the nation's capacity to export.
People are sick and tired of hearing about these deficits.the imbalances are still there and they are still a problem.
but the imbalances are still there.they are still a problem.
That's because the budget deficit feeds an enormous appetite in this country for both foreign goods and foreign capital, overwhelming the nation's capacity to export.the rise in the value of the dollar against foreign currencies over the past several months has increased the price of U.S. products in overseas markets and hurt the country's competitiveness.
Most economists expect the slowing U.S. economy to curb demand for imports.they foresee little substantial progress in exports unless the dollar and the federal budget deficit come down.
But they foresee little substantial progress in exports.the dollar and the federal budget deficit come down.
by lowering the entry-level price for a Next machine by $1,500, or 23%.the buyer chooses a hard-disk drive as an alternative to Next's optical-storage device.
by lowering the entry-level price for a Next machine by $1,500, or 23%, if the buyer chooses a hard-disk drive as an alternative to Next's optical-storage device.The hard drive now will supplement Next's futuristic optical device if buyers pay full price.
The hard drive also now will supplement Next's futuristic optical device.buyers pay full price.
His Next computer, introduced about a year ago and aimed primarily at university computer users, sports snazzy graphics, digital sound, built-in networking and a sleek black design.the computer was proving a hard sell because of its high price, a lack of software and an optical data-storage device that was too slow.
The closely held company hasn't disclosed sales.most universities that have bought the machines say they are buying small numbers for evaluation purposes.
A computer with the optical device will still cost $6,495.from now on Next will outfit every computer with a hard drive and supply one at no cost to those who have already bought Next machines.
Optical-storage devices can handle very large amounts of data and make it far easier to edit film clips or audio recordings with a computer.the technology, while reliable, is far slower than the widely used hard drives.
But the technology is far slower than the widely used hard drives.reliable.
that the next generation of optical drives will be as fast as hard drives.he depends on outside suppliers for the devices.
Next's decision to rely on the more-established hard drive in every Next computer doesn't signal a retreat from optical storage, said Mr. Jobs, who for years has said this technology will play a crucial role in the next decade.university computer specialists, who welcomed the move, called it a necessary retreat from the cutting edge of technology and one that's likely to increase Next's sales on campuses.
From the standpoint of being on the forefront of technology, this is a step backward.it will definitely boost Next's sales.
But it will definitely boost Next's sales.Next's prices must go even lower before large numbers of students purchase the machine.
Next's prices must go even lower.large numbers of students purchase the machine.
Next's prices must go even lower before large numbers of students purchase the machine.Broad acceptance of Next's computer is hindered by difficulty in distributing software for it.
Most software is distributed on cheap floppy disks.the Next computer doesn't come with a device that reads them.
Most software is distributed on cheap floppy disks, but the Next computer doesn't come with a device that reads them.Next's computer needs more software applications.
Next's computer also needs more software applications.he expects more soon.
The red ink came as no surprise to Wall Street.they saw ominous hints of a further delay in volume shipments of Version 1.1, a harbinger of continued losses in the fourth quarter.
The success of a new product in the database line is needed.while the company hasn't made a definite statement, it now looks like that's not going to be anytime soon.
And it now looks like that's not going to be anytime soon.the company hasn't made a definite statement.
the fourth-quarter loss is likely to be "comparable to the third quarter's.the company can start shipments of the new product sometime this quarter.
it could stem some, if not all of the red ink.the company can start to ship during this quarter.
In a management restructuring, Thomas L. Ringer resigned as chairman, chief executive and a director.Israel Sheinberg resigned as a director.
In a management restructuring, Thomas L. Ringer resigned as chairman, chief executive and a director, while Israel Sheinberg resigned as a director..Mr. Sheinberg remains as executive vice president..Thomas M. Hurley and Robert A. Vanourek, who had been designated to take over Recognition's top spots had Prospect's tender offer succeeded, were named co-chief executives and directors.the agreement calls for Gilbert H. Lamphere, chairman of Prospect Group's executive committee, to be named chairman of a restructured board that will include four new independent directors.
In addition, the agreement calls for Gilbert H. Lamphere, chairman of Prospect Group's executive committee, to be named chairman of a restructured board that will include four new independent directors.named to the revised board was Thomas A. Loose, Recognition's senior vice president and general counsel.
As part of what a Recognition spokeswoman termed an "amiable agreement," Prospect Group will wind up with control of top management posts and an increased stake in the maker of data management equipment.Prospect, a New York-based leveraged buy-out firm agreed to invest $15 million in Recognition.
Prospect, a New York-based leveraged buy-out firm, also agreed to invest $15 million in Recognition.which agreed to repurchase as much as $20 million of its stock.
As part of what a Recognition spokeswoman termed an "amiable agreement," Prospect Group will wind up with control of top management posts and an increased stake in the maker of data management equipment.it obtained a commitment from Chemical Bank and Bank of Boston to convert an estimated $18 million in bank debt to a new, 24-month secured term loan to be repaid through the sale of certain assets.
The Corsica and Beretta make up the highest-volume car line at Chevrolet.sales of the vehicles are off 9.6% for the year, and fell a steep 34% during early October.
StatesWest declined to discuss details of its proposal.to characterize its offer as "fair and generous and in the best interests of Mesa shareholders.
StatesWest declined to discuss details of its proposal.It asked Mesa to keep the proposal confidential.
The former president of FirstSouth F.A., a defunct Arkansas thrift, pleaded guilty to conspiring to inflate the institution's earnings by concealing worthless loan guarantees.who was chief operating officer of FirstSouth.
The former president of FirstSouth F.A., a defunct Arkansas thrift, pleaded guilty to conspiring to inflate the institution's earnings by concealing worthless loan guarantees.FirstSouth's former chairman and chief executive officer, Howard Weichern, is charged with conspiring to conceal the agreements with Messrs..Watson and Taylor.
Nothing, I assumed, would be more hopelessly dated than a political satire on the Iran-Contra affair.I had underestimated both Mr. Gelbart's wit and the persistence of scandal in Washington.
it takes in the wide sweep of scandals over the past 30 years.the play clearly is framed around the events of Iran-Contra.
it takes in the wide sweep of scandals over the past 30 years.at one point Merry Chase (Melinda Mullins), a cool, carefully coiffed television announcer, recites a list of a dozen or more scandals of recent years.
Not only are there camera operators on all sides.the proceedings are shown on monitors throughout the theater.
we learn that the Internal Revenue Service confiscated one of the properties of a foreign financier who owes the government millions in taxes.the story of "Mastergate" unfolds.
Supposedly the IRS will sell off the assets of MPI.before it can, a lowly IRS agent is called into the hospital room of Wylie Slaughter, the dying head of the Central Intelligence Agency.
but a lowly IRS agent is called into the hospital room of Wylie Slaughter, the dying head of the Central Intelligence Agency.it can.
Daniel von Bargen is ramrod-stiff but totally assured as Major Battle, mixing just the right brand of self-righteousness and patriotism; Jeff Weiss is fire, brimstone and teary-eyed emotionalism as the far-right senator who serves as a friendly interrogator of Major Battle; Zach Grenier is maddeningly officious playing a succession of lawyers; Joseph Daly has the perfect "aw, shucks" demeanor of George Bush in his portrayal of the vice president.Ann McDonough is first-rate as a succession of witnesses' wives.
With one she is pregnant, with Major Battle she is knitting an American flag.as the vice president's wife she rushes in with white hair, wearing a tailored suit and pearls, imitating Barbara Bush's gestures down to the last detail.
it's also true that he is evenhanded in dispensing his satirical jabs, taking sharp aim at senators and congressmen of all stripes and particularly at the media.it's clear that Mr. Gelbart's sympathies do not lie with the far right.
Though it's clear that Mr. Gelbart's sympathies do not lie with the far right.it's true that he is evenhanded in dispensing his satirical jabs.
that he is evenhanded in dispensing his satirical jabs.Mr. Gelbart has fun with language.
Mastergate" is subtitled "a play on words.Mr. Gelbart plays that game as well as anyone.
Mr. Gelbart also has fun with language.This interest in words goes beyond puns and playfulness.
the self-important Sen. Bowman (Jerome Kilty) announces: "Let me emphaticize one thing at the outset: We are not looking for hides to skin nor goats to scape.the hearings begin.
The evening is short -- 95 minutes without an intermission.even so, as the play progresses the thrust of Mr. Gelbart's satire loses its sharpness as his targets pop up ever more predictably.
but even so the thrust of Mr. Gelbart's satire loses its sharpness.the play progresses.
the thrust of Mr. Gelbart's satire loses its sharpness.his targets pop up ever more predictably.
but even so, as the play progresses the thrust of Mr. Gelbart's satire loses its sharpness as his targets pop up ever more predictably.Most of the evening is filled with rare and welcome wit.
and elected James A. Johnson as vice chairman, effective Jan. 1.James A. Aliber, chairman of First Federal of Michigan and a director since 1985, moved up the date of his retirement from the board to accommodate Mr. Johnson's election as a director.
The penthouse elevator started up from the Gutfreund landing.Susan Gutfreund used to turn off its light, to give the impression that there was no higher floor.
Eventually, Mr. Postel broke his toe in the dark.the Gutfreunds determined to put up a 22-foot Christmas tree.
The Postels did not give permission.the Gutfreund workers went ahead anyway.
the Postels had obtained an injunction to prevent any future hoisting of trees, and in a neighborly spirit hit both the Gutfreunds and the building with a $35 million lawsuit.the Gutfreunds finally left this unfriendly environment for a prodigious duplex on Fifth Avenue and an 18th-century mansion with a specially excavated $1 million garage in Paris.
The young John Gutfreund had been discovered by Billy Salomon of Salomon Bros.he was still a bearded liberal.
he became powerful and bland.his new wife, Susan, made him shine in the gossip columns with her profligate spending habits and flamboyant frocks.
he and his partners sold it to Phibro, a powerful commodity trading outfit, for $550 million in Phibro stock.he had been head of the company for 3 1/2 years.
whose family name had been on the firm's door for 70 years.who had hoped it would be there forever.
Mr. Gutfreund collected $32 million.Billy Salomon got $10 million.
Mr. Gutfreund collected $32 million, while Billy Salomon got $10 million, much less than if he had conducted the sale.I felt betrayed," he said.
The New Crowd" by Judith Ramsey Ehrlich and Barry J. Rehfeld (Little, Brown, 444 pages, $19.95), describes the displacing of the old "our crowd" Jewish Wall Street banking grandees by such new business barons as Saul Steinberg, Carl Icahn, Sanford Weill and Bruce Wasserstein.The book recounts the not dissimilar maneuvers surrounding the changing of the guard at Lehman Bros. and other grand old firms.
he cursed so forcefully that his face reddened and his pale-blue eyes narrowed into tiny slits.angered.
he cursed so forcefully that his face reddened.his pale-blue eyes narrowed into tiny slits.
They were old-fashioned elegant gentlemen, who happened to be of German Jewish extraction.in the harsh world of today's Wall Street they have lost out to more aggressive and sometimes less scrupulous successors.
The cuckoo prefers the nests of other birds and heaves out their eggs.the old guard hired the New Crowd people: It brought in its own cuckoos.
It brought in its own cuckoos.as the Old Crowd toppled from the branch, it shouldn't have been too surprised.
So it shouldn't have been too surprised.the Old Crowd toppled from the branch.
So, as the Old Crowd toppled from the branch, it shouldn't have been too surprised.The old guard had every right to disdain the newcomers' new ways of making money, such as greenmail.
Second, a long-term shareholder of a good company needn't worry too much.the stock price drops temporarily.
Second, a long-term shareholder of a good company needn't worry too much when the stock price drops temporarily: It will bounce back.if a raider takes over when the stock is weak, the shareholder never gets his recovery.
But the shareholder never gets his recovery.a raider takes over when the stock is weak.
if a raider takes over.the stock is weak.
The earlier generation of "our crowd" bankers -- Belmonts, Warburgs, Lehmans, Baches and Schiffs -- had stressed above all probity, tradition, continuity and reputation.The raiders have evolved their own pattern for spending their new millions.
The earlier generation of "our crowd" bankers -- Belmonts, Warburgs, Lehmans, Baches and Schiffs -- had stressed above all probity, tradition, continuity and reputation.The raiders have evolved their own pattern for spending their new millions.
The book is patronizing about this nouveau riche struggle for respectability, which has its tawdry aspects.on balance, the charity game helps America.
those who have the money don't get involved with the museums and the charities.City Hall will do it, badly.
that Ivan Boesky vacated for a prison cell.The glitzy office had contained commodity operators Marc Rich and "Pinky" Green, today fugitives from a potential century apiece of jail sentences.
The Old Crowd is deeply concerned by the backlash from all this.the phenomenon is not specifically Jewish.
that those outside the club want to climb in.that a few will cut corners in the process.
In a generation or two some of the New Crowd may attain true respectability.perhaps to be displaced by a later flock of unscrupulous raptors.
In a generation or two some of the New Crowd may attain true respectability, perhaps to be displaced in turn by a later flock of unscrupulous raptors.perhaps Wall Street, when it has suffered enough, will realize that finance is a service industry, and change its ethos.
Or perhaps Wall Street will realize that finance is a service industry.it has suffered enough.
he planned to sell his Lockheed stake.the defense industry seems to be getting more uncertain.
the articles didn't accurately reflect Valhi and its affiliates' intentions toward Lockheed.they may increase, decrease or retain their Lockheed holdings, depending on a number of conditions.
U.S. exports to Canada jumped 11.2% in August from July.U.S. imports from Canada rose only 2.7%.
U.S. exports to Canada jumped 11.2% in August from July while U.S. imports from Canada rose only 2.7%.Canada's trade surplus with the U.S. narrowed to C$656.5 million (US$558 million) in August from C$1.23 billion (US$1.04 billion) in July.
Some tariffs were eliminated.the trade pact took effect Jan. 1.
For such businessmen, the Canadian government is organizing 55 missions this year to U.S. states bordering on Canada.The Canadian government has recently opened new trade offices in San Diego; San Juan, Puerto Rico; Miami; Princeton, N.J., and Denver.
Gold Texas is based in Vancouver, British Columbia.Crown Resources is based in Denver.
Bank of New England Corp said it will sell some operations and lay off 4% of its work force.The bank holding company reported that third-quarter profit dropped 41%, to $42.7 million, or 61 cents a share, from the year-earlier $72.3 million, or $1.04 a share.
Some $170 million of the $233 million increase in nonperforming loans was related to real estate according to Richard Driscoll, vice chairman.roughly three-quarters of that was in the troubled New England market.
that net third-quarter charge-offs, at $63 million, improved slightly from the $67 million in the second quarter.that more substantial improvement is expected in the next couple of quarters.
that imports of steel from European Community nations fell to 466,000 tons from 481,000 a month earlier.imports from Japan rose to 323,000 tons from 288,000 in July.
In August two Boston sales representatives sent customers a letter saying: "We fully expect that you will soon be reading stories in the press reporting the `Amazing Comeback at Wang.Wang Laboratories Inc. reported a staggering $424.3 million loss and replaced its president.
How soon Wang will stage a comeback.if it will at all.
We fully expect that you will soon be reading stories in the press reporting the `Amazing Comeback at Wang.How soon Wang will stage a comeback, or if it will at all, are matters of debate.
How soon Wang will stage a comeback, or if it will at all, are still matters of debate.Wang salespeople are trying to cope with the biggest challenge any marketer can face: selling the products of a company that is on the ropes.
you've lost it before you've begun.your prospect is feeling risk the whole time and you're not feeling as if you're backed up by a stable company.
If your prospect is feeling risk the whole time.you're not feeling as if you're backed up by a stable company.
you've lost it.you've begun.
faced by Audi salespeople.the car was tainted by false charges of sudden acceleration.
It's very important that we exude confidence.within the family we know there's a lot of hard work ahead.
It's very important that we exude confidence, even though within the family we know there's a lot of hard work ahead," said Richard Miller, the Lowell, Mass., computer concern's new president, in a video message to salespeople.he took over.
Last year it funded its high employment by heavy borrowing.it suffered huge losses when sales turned down instead of rising.
and it suffered huge losses.sales turned down instead of rising.
Wang's marketing department provided the sales force answers to questions such as "How could you not have known you were going to lose $55 million?" and "Is Wang still a viable company.the company reported red ink for the fiscal third quarter.
How could you not have known you were going to lose $55 million.Is Wang still a viable company.
That's antithetical to the art of selling.that analyzing financial results "poses a problem for a salesman who isn't particularly familiar with a balance sheet.
ordering salespeople to become experts on the annual report.if the salespeople can get the customers to consider Wang's products on their merits, he or a top financial officer will try to assuage the fears about finances.
Instead he or a top financial officer will try to assuage the fears about finances.the salespeople can get the customers to consider Wang's products on their merits.
Numerous computer companies are having sales slumps and earnings declines.very few have had losses comparable to Wang's or are carrying such a large debt load.
he expects the company will return to profitability by the fourth quarter.Wang will report a loss for the first quarter ended Sept. 30 and the full fiscal year.
it will be a problem for the long run.a salesman jeopardizes his credibility in this time of trouble.
If a salesman jeopardizes his credibility in this time of trouble, it will be a problem for the long run.The customer will react to strength.
Before the really bad news, we were looking at Wang fairly seriously.their present financial condition means I'd have a hard time convincing the vice president in charge of purchasing.
Wang's overall product line is "still not as good as other vendors.they've come a long way.
They were on the road to recovery in terms of customer attitudes.this bad quarter happened.
Wang's installed base is one of its greatest assets.many of those customers remain extremely loyal.
The first priority for Wang's sales force is to make sure it holds on to existing customers.even before Wang's latest financial troubles surfaced, some customers "were trying to wall off their Wang installations" so other departments wouldn't add Wang.
But some customers "were trying to wall off their Wang installations" so other departments wouldn't add Wang.Wang's latest financial troubles surfaced.
But some customers "were trying to wall off their Wang installations.other departments wouldn't add Wang.
that he worked "to muster support from internal allies.he tried to sell products to Eastman Kodak.
he worked "to muster support from internal allies.those allies became skeptical as they saw the downtrend..The more recent losses were really devastating.
but "those allies became skeptical.they saw the downtrend.
Consultants say that Wang's technology is among the best available in the image market.salespeople often found that news of Wang's problems superseded their sales efforts.
all hell broke loose with the finances.they were making the decision.
it's hard to go with Wang.a company realizes that.
It's a tough thing.you can't.
they stop selling.people get down in the dumps.
The bad news is, you'll be rejected more..The good news is, it's not your fault.make goals achievable.
So make goals achievable.that salespeople making telephone calls should say to themselves: "All I want to do today is get 50 rejections.
For instance, he suggests that salespeople making telephone calls should say to themselves: "All I want to do today is get 50 rejections.Mr. Miller, Wang's new president, recently warned his salespeople about negativism.
Pretax operating profit from telephone operations rose 8.2%.profits from telecommunications products and electrical products were flat.
Revenue in the telecommunications products and services unit rose 27% to $728.8 million.operating profit was unchanged at $26.3 million, partly because of start-up expenses.
Operating profit grew 57% to $269 million from $171 million.operating margins rose to 16.1% from 15.9% the previous quarter and 12.6% a year ago.
revenue will continue to grow.that we can control costs and thus improve profitability.
revenue will continue to grow and that we can control costs.and improve profitability.
The company reported a 3.1% increase in the number of access lines in service.and said its Southwestern Bell Mobile Systems unit added 30,000 new customers, with a current total of about 333,000.
that the number of access lines dropped slightly in the quarter, a decline attributed to seasonal fluctuations.For the year access lines in service have increased 5.5%.
of doubling revenues to about $1.8 billion.steadily increasing net.
it increased its loan-loss reserves by $93 million.reviewing its loan portfolio.
it increased its loan-loss reserves by $93 million.reviewing its loan portfolio.
In addition to the increased reserve, the savings bank took a special charge of $5 million representing general and administrative expenses from staff reductions and other matters.it posted a $7.6 million reduction in expected mortgage servicing fees.
some United Airlines employees wanted Mr. Wolf fired.takeover stock speculators wanted his scalp.
their prospective personal fortunes continue to plummet.shares of UAL, United's parent company, dived $24.875 on the Big Board to close at $198.
their prospective personal fortunes continue to plummet.shares of UAL, United's parent company, dived $24.875 on the Big Board to close at $198.
so did UAL's stock.bank financing for the buy-out collapsed last week.
so did UAL's stock.bank financing for the buy-out collapsed last week.
the two executives would still get about $25 million less than they stood to gain in the initial transaction.the banks resurrect a financing package at $250 a share.
He left his last two jobs at Republic Airlines and Flying Tiger with combined stock-option gains of about $22 million.UAL gave him a $15 million bonus when it hired him.
and UAL gave him a $15 million bonus.it hired him.
United paid him a $375,000 bonus to lure him away from American Airlines.he was paid a salary of $342,122 last year with a $280,000 bonus.
to make pay concessions.the buy-out would be a success.
Mr. Percival's employment contract calls for him to act as a consultant to the company for two years.He will remain a director but won't serve on any board committees.
In a statement, US Facilities said Mr. Percival's employment contract calls for him to act as a consultant to the company for two years..He will also remain a director, US Facilities said, but won't serve on any board committees.In the same statement, US Facilities said it had bought back 112,000 of its common shares in a private transaction.
Warner-Lambert Co. 's profit rose 22%.Eli Lilly & Co. 's net income rose 24%.
Mevacor, Merck's new cholesterol-lowering drug, had higher sales than any other prescription medicine has ever achieved in the U.S. in the year following introduction.Intense competition led to unit sales declines for a group of Merck's established human and animal-health products, including Aldomet and Indocin.
Prescription-drug world-wide sales rose 9% in the quarter to $340 million; U.S. sales rose 15% World-wide sales of Warner-Lambert's non-prescription health-care products, such as Halls cough tablets, Rolaids antacid, and Lubriderm skin lotion, increased 3% to $362 million in the third quarter; U.S. sales rose 5%.Confectionery products sales had strong growth in the quarter.
Mr. Mark attributed the earnings growth to strong sales in Latin America, Asia and Europe.Results were bolstered by "a very meaningful" increase in operating profit by Colgate's U.S. business.
Analysts estimate Colgate's sales of household products in the U.S. were flat for the quarter.they estimated operating margins at only 1% to 3%.
that would be fine.you could say their business in the U.S. was mediocre, but great everywhere else.
If you could say their business in the U.S. was mediocre, but great everywhere else, that would be fine.it's not mediocre, it's a real problem.
We've done a lot to improve {U.S.} results.a lot more will be done.
which primarily has interests in radio and television stations.Osborn operates Muzak franchises, entertainment properties and small cable-television systems.
Maybe so.you can find where your favorite writer went.
who spare no invective.taking on local luminaries such as Michael "Pee Wee" Dukakis, or New England Patriots Coach Raymond "Rev..Ray" Berry.
for parking his car.chasing a story.
that the new drawings were designed to hide Mr. Madden's "rapidly growing forehead" and the facial defects of "chinless" Dan Shaughnessy, a Globe sports columnist.think of the money you, the reader, will save on Halloween.
I bow to no one in my regard for our terrestrial heritage.if we are serious about global warming we must look at the big picture and not allow the Dominant Culture to lock us into the capitalist-exploiters-greedy-American-consumers-global- warming scenario as the sole model for discussion.
The Internal Revenue Service plans to restructure itself more like a private corporation.that it will take the unusual step of looking to the private sector to fill two new high-level positions to guide the 120,000-employee agency: a comptroller to oversee daily finances and a chief information officer to update the information system, which includes probably the largest computer data base in the world.
In addition, the tax-collecting agency says that it will take the unusual step of looking to the private sector to fill two new high-level positions to guide the 120,000-employee agency: a comptroller to oversee daily finances and a chief information officer to update the information system, which includes probably the largest computer data base in the world.The IRS said that it would create the position of chief financial officer, who will be hired from within the agency.
that we do not have the kinds of information that let us responsibly and effectively formulate and execute our budget.we don't have internal controls and discipline that we need to have to spend $5 billion properly.
The IRS operates on a computer system designed in 1961, which it has been trying to modernize for years.the agency, which operated throughout fiscal 1989 with a $360 million budget shortfall, has been under a hiring freeze since last fall.
that you will see a significant improvement in the budget formulation and execution process.which will result in a significant increase in revenue.
Customarily, it would appoint career civil servants from within the agency.he plans to "scour the world" for the chief information officer and the comptroller.
IRS officials are confident that they can attract top-notch candidates from the private sector.the jobs will probably pay between $70,000 and $80,000 a year.
his body bore several gunshot wounds, a cracked skull and broken legs and ribs.Maj. Moises Giroldi, the leader of the abortive coup in Panama, was buried.
He is now changing the place he sleeps every night, sometimes more than once a night..His meals are most often prepared by women he trusts -- his full-time mistress, Vicky Amado, and her mother, Norma.he is collecting the names of those who telephoned the coup-makers to congratulate them during their brief time in control of his headquarters.
In the two weeks since the rebellion, which the U.S. hesitantly backed, Mr. Noriega has been at his most brutal-and efficient-in maintaining power.it is merely the latest chapter in a byzantine relationship between Mr. Noriega and Washington that stretches back three decades.
it helped create him out of the crucible of Panama's long history of conspirators and pirates.American foreign policy set out to destroy Noriega.
For most of the past 30 years, the marriage was one of convenience.In 1960 when Mr. Noriega was both a cadet at an elite military academy in Peru and a spy-in-training for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, he was detained by Lima authorities for allegedly raping and savagely beating a prostitute, according to a U.S. Embassy cable from that period..The woman had nearly died..But U.S. intelligence, rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy, merely filed the report away.
In 1960, for example, when Mr. Noriega was both a cadet at an elite military academy in Peru and a spy-in-training for the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency, he was detained by Lima authorities for allegedly raping and savagely beating a prostitute, according to a U.S. Embassy cable from that period.U.S. intelligence, rather than rein in or cut loose its new spy, merely filed the report away.
The U.S. has befriended.and turned against many dictators, but none quite so resourceful.
The 55-year-old Mr. Noriega isn't as smooth as the shah of Iran, as well-born as Nicaragua's Anastasio Somoza, as imperial as Ferdinand Marcos of the Philippines or as bloody as Haiti's Baby Doc Duvalier.he has proved more resilient than any of them.
The U.S. can make mistakes.and hope to remove him from power.
The U.S. can make mistakes and still hope to remove him from power.a single error on his part could cost him his life.
Mr. Noriega might have fallen of his own weight in 1988 because of Panama's dire economic situation.increasing external pressure has only given him additional excuses for repression, and a scapegoat for his own mismanagement.
It is easy to fight.you don't have any other option.
and gained admission to the academy.his brother had falsified his birth certificate.
Mr. Noriega had learned that a local union leader was sleeping with the wife of his deputy.he splashed the information on handbills that he distributed throughout the banana-exporting city of Puerto Armuelles.
He was superb.During his years in Chiriqui Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious.
Noriega was an expert at bribing and blackmailing people.During his years in Chiriqui, however, Mr. Noriega revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious.
During his years in Chiriqui, however, Mr. Noriega also revealed himself as an officer as perverse as he was ingenious.through this period Mr. Noriega was a model recruit.
Some American officers interpreted his eagerness and studiousness as a sign of loyalty.they did so falsely.
He rose to chief of intelligence in Panama's socalled G-2 in 1970.providing populist dictator Torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier.
He rose to chief of intelligence in Panama's socalled G-2 in 1970.providing populist dictator Torrijos the critical support to defeat a coup attempt against him a year earlier.
intelligence experts always insisted that his allegiance was first to the Americans.U.S. diplomats complained to the CIA of Col. Noriega's moonlighting.
how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information.he was just as close to the Cubans.
how our intelligence people could put so much stock in his information.he was just as close to the Cubans.
The head of the DEA at the time, John Ingersoll, scotched the assassination plan.he did fly to Panama to scold dictator Torrijos on the drug ties of Panamanian officials, including Mr. Noriega.
But he did fly to Panama to scold dictator Torrijos on the drug ties of Panamanian officials, including Mr. Noriega.Mr. Ingersoll recalled that Gen. Torrijos seemed afraid to act on the concerns of the U.S.
For the first time, the U.S. considered cutting Mr. Noriega from its intelligence payroll.the deliberations were intense.
In the world of intelligence you get it from seedy characters.you want to get information.
how much you get tied in with seedy characters.they can extort you.
They included one of Mr. Noriega's closest friends and business partners, Carlos Wittgreen.the investigators were quickly closing in on Mr. Noriega himself.
And the investigators were quickly closing in on Mr. Noriega himself.At the time in 1979, the U.S. was once again flirting with its longtime Latin American spy.
to arrest him on the gun-running charges.he hit U.S. soil.
Their original indictment against Mr. Wittgreen, the friend of Mr. Noriega, and the other four was dismissed on a technicality.now, along with reindicting Mr. Noriega's pal, they intended to charge Mr. Noriega himself, on allegations that he was involved in the illegal trading of some $2 million in arms.
U.S. Attorney Jack Eskenazi pleaded with Justice Department officials in Washington to let the indictment proceed.prodding from Mr. Sanford.
U.S. Attorney Jack Eskenazi pleaded with Justice Department officials in Washington to let the indictment proceed.prodding from Mr. Sanford.
ourselves frequently attempting to enforce the laws of the United States.but being caught between foreign policy considerations over which we have no control.
The letter, along with a detailed prosecution memo, sat on the desks of Justice officials for months.the case died a quiet death.
we had been allowed to go ahead.we wouldn't have the problems we have now.
Soon, the military became a veritable mafia controlling legal and illegal businesses.The Reagan administration put Mr. Noriega's G-2 back on the U.S. payroll.
Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively.working for U.S. intelligence.
who once worked for Mr. Noriega.who testified before the U.S. grand jury in Miami that would ultimately indict the Panamanian on drug charges.
and who testified before the U.S. grand jury in Miami.that would indict the Panamanian on drug charges.
Although working for U.S. intelligence, Mr. Noriega was hardly helping the U.S. exclusively.Mr. Noriega was convinced the Reagan White House wouldn't act against him.
But Mr. Noriega was convinced the Reagan White House wouldn't act against him.he had an insurance policy: his involvement with the Contra rebels in Nicaragua.
the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama.Mr. Noriega conveyed intelligence from his spy operation inside the Nicaraguan capital of Managua.
the general allowed the Contras to set up a secret training center in Panama..Mr. Noriega also conveyed intelligence from his spy operation inside the Nicaraguan capital of Managua.on at least one occasion, in the spring of 1985, he helped arrange a sabotage attack on a Sandinista arsenal in Nicaragua.
it was enough to win him important protectors in the Reagan administration.his help for the Contra cause was limited.
so did his offers of assistance to the Contras, an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington.Mr. Noriega's political troubles grew.
so did his offers of assistance to the Contras, an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington.Mr. Noriega's political troubles grew.
As Mr. Noriega's political troubles grew, so did his offers of assistance to the Contras, an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington.he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party..But just one month later, he also contributed $100,000 to a Contra leader, according to documents released for Oliver North's criminal trial in Washington, D.C.
For instance, he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party.just one month later, he also contributed $100,000 to a Contra leader, according to documents released for Oliver North's criminal trial in Washington, D.C.
For instance, he helped steal the May 1984 Panamanian elections for the ruling party.But just one month later, he contributed $100,000 to a Contra leader, according to documents released for Oliver North's criminal trial in Washington, D.C.
so did his offers of assistance to the Contras, an apparent attempt to curry more favor in Washington.his political setbacks mounted.
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora, his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges.He ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta, a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S.
He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta, a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S.Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder.
Mr. Noriega was accused of ordering in 1985 the beheading of Hugo Spadafora, his most outspoken political opponent and the first man to publicly finger Mr. Noriega on drug trafficking charges..He then ousted President Nicholas Ardito Barletta, a former World Bank official with close ties to the U.S., after Mr. Barletta tried to create a commission to investigate the murder.all the while, Panama's debt problems continued to grow.
Mr. Noriega's proposal was turned down.Mr. Shultz curtly told Mr. Abrams that the general should be told that only he could repair his tarnished image.
we created him.we fed him, nurtured him and let him grow up to be big and strong.
Yesterday's edition provided analysts' estimates for the company.actual earnings were available.
The Federal Reserve Board said output of the nation's factories, mines and utilities expanded at an annual rate of 1.3% in the third quarter, substantially slower than the 3.3% annual rate in the second quarter.The Fed said U.S. industry operated at 83.6% of capacity last month, down from 83.8% in August.
Factory output dropped 0.2%, its first decline since February.having been unchanged in October.
The drop is particularly large for white males.black males and white and black women also show lower mortality rates.
The drop is particularly large for white males.although black males and white and black women show lower mortality rates.
Lung-cancer mortality rates for people under 45 years of age have begun to decline, federal researchers report.A report in this week's issue of the Journal of the National Cancer Institute projects that overall U.S. mortality rates from lung cancer, the leading cause of cancer death, should begin to drop in several years if cigarette smoking continues to abate.
that overall U.S. mortality rates from lung cancer, the leading cause of cancer death, should begin to drop in several years.cigarette smoking continues to abate.
which comes.the U.S. Surgeon General issued a report warning against the dangers of smoking.
The death rate from lung cancer of white males aged 35 to 44 in the mid-1970s was 13.4 per 100,000.the mortality rate of the same age group in the mid-1980s was 9.6, a decline of 28.7%.
The report is the strongest indication to date that the reduction in smoking is leading to lower death rates from lung cancer.The study, by Susan Devesa, William Blot and Joseph Fraumeni of the institute's staff shows that the incidence of lung cancer as well as the death rate declined over the decade for all groups in the 35-44 age bracket, except black men.
the report projects that death rates will begin to decline in the 1990s for men and after the year 2000 for women.lung-cancer mortality rates are increasing for the nation as a whole.
Lung-cancer mortality rates increase with age and are continuing to rise for all age groups over 55, with sharp increases for everybody but white men.the declining rates we're seeing for younger people may be a harbinger of declining mortality in the future.
the declining rates we're seeing for younger people may be a harbinger of declining mortality in the future.that the improvement depends on a continued reduction in smoking.
they can't be taken for granted.these favorable trends in lung-cancer mortality affect all sex and race groups.
the report of declining lung-cancer mortality "among young men and women in the U.S. indicates that we finally may be winning the battle -- this even in a country where the tobacco industry spends over $2 billion a year for promotion of the addictive habit of smoking.that tobacco consumption and lung-cancer mortality rates are rising in developing countries.
in both sexes more whites have given up smoking than blacks.nearly equal percentages of black and white women currently smoke.
the Nasdaq Composite Index weakened under selling pressure.gaining strength during a brief run-up when trading began.
After gaining strength during a brief run-up.trading began.
During the last two hours of trading, the composite almost drew even on the day.slipping again.
Every time you thought it was going into a rally it gave up.every time you thought it would rally it came down.
Everybody's confused.no one has an opinion that lasts longer than 30 seconds.
Program trading is "benefiting a few to the detriment of many.I wish someone would do something about it.
Program trading is "benefiting a few to the detriment of many.I wish someone would do something about it.
Of the 4,345 stocks that changed hands, 1,174 declined.1,040 advanced.
The stock traded as high as 29 3/4 and as low as 28 3/4.closing at 29 1/4, down 1/4.
that it might have to take a charge against earnings.it can't successfully resolve a dispute with its European licensee, Boehringer Mannheim, over its anti-anemia drug, EPO.
The wholesaler of cash and carry merchandise reported fiscal fourthquarter earnings that were better than analysts had expected.The company pleased analysts by announcing four new store openings planned for fiscal 1990.
The wholesaler of cash and carry merchandise reported fiscal fourthquarter earnings that were better than analysts had expected.Intermec, a maker of optical character-recognition devices reported higher third-quarter earnings.
Intermec, a maker of optical character-recognition devices, also reported higher third-quarter earnings.favorable earnings wasn't a guarantee that a stock's price would improve yesterday.
MCI Communications tumbled 2 5/8 to 42 3/8 on 4.7 million shares.the telecommunications giant reported a 63% increase in third-quarter profit.
CoreStates Financial slipped 3/8 to 43 1/8 in active trading.reporting that third-quarter earnings improved to $1.27 a share from $1.15 a share a year earlier.
CoreStates Financial slipped 3/8 to 43 1/8 in active trading.reporting that third-quarter earnings improved to $1.27 a share from $1.15 a share a year earlier.
CoreStates Financial slipped 3/8 to 43 1/8 in active trading after reporting that third-quarter earnings improved to $1.27 a share from $1.15 a share a year earlier.the bank holding company's loan-loss reserves rose to $177.3 million from $154 million a year earlier.
A&W Brands lost 1/4 to 27.its thirdquarter earnings rose to 26 cents a share from 18 cents a share last year.
Robert M. Jelenic, 39, was named president and chief operating officer of this closely held publisher.he would take on additional responsibilities as editor in chief of the company.
Robert M. Jelenic, 39, was named president and chief operating officer of this closely held publisher he would take on additional responsibilities as editor in chief of the company.Jean B. Clifton, 28, was named executive vice president, treasurer and chief financial officer.
It started with improvements in hygiene made possible by affordable soap and washable underwear during the Industrial Revolution.cast-iron sewer pipe and the flush toilet were followed by sewage- and water-treatment plants toward the end of the 19th century.
Medicine in the 19th century was dedicated mostly to combating sepsis and diagnostic analysis.the 20th century saw the evolution of private-sector wonder drugs.
New Environmentalism probably started in 1962 with the publication of Rachel Carson's book "Silent Spring.hysterical articles began to appear predicting that advanced industrial societies would produce a blackened, uninhabitable planet possibly by the turn of the century.
Writing in the 1960s Ms. Carson suggested that the human race could be eliminated in 20 years.Mr. Wald suggested that life on earth might end by 1985.
that they be banned from industrial use.they produced malignant tumors in overdosed rats.
predicting that advanced industrial societies would produce a blackened, uninhabitable planet possibly by the turn of the century.the New Environmentalists systematically opposed the methods of the Old Environmentalists.
predicting that advanced industrial societies would produce a blackened, uninhabitable planet possibly by the turn of the century.the New Environmentalists systematically opposed the methods of the Old Environmentalists.
Local pollution problems require cheap energy and capital for their solution.the New Environmentalists oppose private wealth creation (which, they claim, depletes natural resources) and nuclear power (even though it would counteract the greenhouse effect).
Local pollution problems require cheap energy and capital for their solution.the New Environmentalists oppose private wealth creation (which, they claim, depletes natural resources) and nuclear power (even though it would counteract the greenhouse effect).
and nuclear power.it would counteract the greenhouse effect.
not to try to create news stories for the event itself.was it intended to dictate a set of prescriptive solutions.
Nor was it intended to dictate a set of prescriptive solutions.various points were raised.
society and government are underreacting.it comes to substantive policy change.
that hardly can be termed non-objective journalism.the media decide to work harder at educating the public about these complex and technical issues.
that it is unlikely we will be able to address them effectively.major changes are made in less than 10 years.
who had already slashed their projections.the company said in late August that its 1989 earnings could tumble as much as 37%.
who had already slashed their projections.the company said in late August that its 1989 earnings could tumble as much as 37%.
Third-quarter revenue was flat at $1.02 billion.The year-ago results included the operations of a bottling business, which was sold last December.
The volume is well below the industry's 4% to 5% growth rate of recent years, but in line with other soft-drink companies for the third quarter.The latest third-quarter volume compares with a very strong 10% growth in the year-ago quarter.
its third-quarter net income fell 68% on flat revenue.it repurchased about 1.2 million of its common shares during the third quarter.
Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc., fulfilling its dismal earnings forecast for 1989, said its third-quarter net income fell 68% on flat revenue.Purchase, N.Y.-based PepsiCo Inc., as expected, said fiscal third-quarter net rose 11% to $269.3 million, or $1.02 a share, from $241.6 million, or 91 cents a share.
This year, a number of retail leveraged buyouts have failed, causing jitters among suppliers.Mr. Merksamer apparently wanted assurances that he won't have delivery problems.
This year, a number of retail leveraged buyouts have failed, causing jitters among suppliers.Mr. Merksamer apparently wanted assurances that he won't have delivery problems.
NBC, a leader in morning, prime-time and late night programs but an also-ran on Saturday mornings is contemplating getting out of the cartoon business.it may "counterprogram" with shows for an audience that is virtually ignored in that time period: adults.
There is talk of some revamping.we're certainly heading in the direction of less and less animation.
NBC's options could range from news-oriented programming to sports shows.the network declined to comment.
We feel there is an opportunity for an audience that is not being served by any network.we want to take the lead.
An NBC spokesman says the network will "closely monitor" the Sacramento situation.says it is the only station to defect.
Rohm & Haas attributed the profit slide partly to higher start-up expense.The company cited the stronger dollar.
which cuts the value of overseas profit.it is translated into dollars.
Rohm & Haas attributed the profit slide partly to higher start-up expense..The company also cited the stronger dollar, which cuts the value of overseas profit when it is translated into dollars.it was hurt by higher than previous-year costs for raw materials.
In addition it was hurt by higher than previous-year costs for raw materials.those costs have declined since the second quarter.
In addition it was hurt by higher than previous-year costs for raw materials.Incrementally higher production of those chemicals which remain in heavy demand has forced up costs, such as overtime pay.
Any patient with high-risk colon cancer is really getting short shrift.he's not getting this therapy.
I didn't say this.I'm totally opposed to the philosophy expressed by the quote.
With this treatment we have reduced deaths in high-risk colon cancer by one-third.this leaves the two-thirds who are dying of cancer.
any patient with high-risk cancer is getting short shrift.he is not offered this opportunity.
We have very exciting prospects for far more impressive advances in the treatment of colon cancer during the years immediately ahead.This hope will never be realized if we use levamisole and 5-fluorouracil as a stopping point.
This hope, however, will never be realized.we use levamisole and 5-fluorouracil as a stopping point.
they are setting out to find the most cost-effective fuel for reducing cities' air-pollution problems, with no bias toward any fuel in particular.their search notably won't include natural gas or pure methanol -- the two front-running alternative fuels -- in tests to be completed by next summer.
However, their search notably won't include natural gas or pure methanol -- the two front-running alternative fuels -- in tests to be completed by next summer.the tests will focus heavily on new blends of gasoline.
which are still undeveloped.which the petroleum industry has been touting as a solution for automobile pollution that is choking urban areas.
only Atlantic Richfield Co. is now marketing a lower-emission gasoline for older cars currently running on leaded fuel.major oil companies have been experimenting with cleaner-burning gasoline blends for years.
The whole idea here is the automobile and oil companies have joint customers.we are looking for the most cost-effective way to clean up the air.
The whole idea here is the automobile and oil companies have joint customers," said Keith McHenry, a senior vice president of technology at Amoco Corp. "And we are looking for the most cost-effective way to clean up the air.David Hawkins, an environmental lawyer with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said the research appears merely to be a way to promote reformulated gasoline.
to gut Mr. Bush's plans to require auto makers to begin selling alternative-fueled cars by 1995.a House subcommittee adopted a clean-fuels program that specifically mentions reformulated gasoline as an alternative.
Instead, a House subcommittee adopted a clean-fuels program.that mentions reformulated gasoline as an alternative.
it will try to resurrect its plan.the House Energy and Commerce Committee takes up a comprehensive clean-air bill.
Mr. Seidman inherited the problems of Lincoln.his regulatory role was expanded by the new savings-and-loan bailout law.
to investigate what appears to be the biggest thrift disaster in a scandal-ridden industry.The inquiry will cover the actions of Charles Keating Jr.
who is chairman of American Continental Corp., Lincoln's parent.who contributed heavily to several U.S. senators.
for example, 15% of its loans, or $250 million, were to borrowers who were buying real estate from one of American Continental's 50 other subsidiaries, according to Mr. Seidman.Lincoln was seized by the government.
such findings in one of our own institutions.When Lincoln was seized by the government 15% of its loans, or $250 million, were to borrowers who were buying real estate from one of American Continental's 50 other subsidiaries, according to Mr. Seidman.
that had we made such findings in one of our own institutions, we would have sought an immediate cease-and-desist order to stop the hazardous operations.the government didn't step in until six months ago, when thrift officials put Lincoln into conservatorship -- the day after American Continental filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from creditors.
Leonard Bickwit, an attorney in Washington for Mr. Keating, declined to comment on the hearings.to say, "We will be responding comprehensively in several forums to each of these allegations at the appropriate time.
Lincoln's treatment by former thrift regulators, in an agency disbanded by the new law, has proved embarrassing for five senators who received thousands of dollars in campaign contributions from Mr. Keating.that Sen. Dennis DeConcini (D., Ariz.), who received $48,100 in contributions from Mr. Keating, phoned Mr. Seidman to request that he push for a sale of Lincoln before it would be seized.
that he push for a sale of Lincoln.it would be seized.
Sen. DeConcini returned the campaign contributions.the government lawsuit was filed against Lincoln.
that he pushed for the sale of Lincoln.hundreds of Arizona jobs {at Lincoln} were on the line.
Sen. DeConcini returned the campaign contributions.Senate Banking Committee Chairman Donald Riegle (D., Mich.) has returned contributions he received from Mr. Keating a year ago.
he received from Mr. Keating a year ago.Sens..John Glenn (D., Ohio), John McCain, (R., Ariz.) and Alan Cranston (D., Calif.) received substantial contributions from Mr. Keating and sought to intervene on behalf of Lincoln.
to appear before the House committee.necessary.
Sen. Cranston volunteered to appear before the House committee, if necessary.the panel is unlikely to pursue closely the role of the senators.
At the hearing, Mr. Seidman said the RTC has already pumped $729 million into Lincoln for liquidity.He held out little hope of restitution for purchasers of $225 million in American Continental subordinated debt.
to sell $1.8 billion in assets.to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection at two-thirds its former size.
In July, Eastern and its creditors agreed on a reorganization plan that called for Eastern to sell $1.8 billion in assets and to emerge from bankruptcy-law protection at two-thirds its former size.after selling off pieces such as its East Coast shuttle, its Philadelphia hub and various planes, Eastern hit a stumbling block.
But Eastern hit a stumbling block.selling off pieces such as its East Coast shuttle, its Philadelphia hub and various planes.
Eastern hit a stumbling block..It couldn't sell its South American routes, one of the major assets marked for disposal.Eastern decided it would have to keep and operate the routes itself.
Eastern hit a stumbling block..It couldn't sell its South American routes, one of the major assets marked for disposal.Eastern decided it would have to keep and operate the routes itself.
which would leave it with less cash for its reorganization.It would leave Eastern a bigger carrier than the scaled-down one proposed under the initial plan.
Since then, Eastern has been negotiating with creditors over revisions.the creditors committee has been having problems with the revisions.
Eastern's plans will miss its projections of earnings before interest, tax and depreciation by $100 million.that Eastern's plan presented no comfort level, according to a source present at yesterday's session.
they expected Eastern would have to issue new debt to cover its costs.that it would generate far less cash than anticipated.
Eastern would have to issue new debt to cover its costs.Other costs would increase, including maintenance, because Eastern has an older fleet.
Other costs also would increase, including maintenance.Eastern has an older fleet.
Mr. Bakes declined to give out Eastern's daily losses.said he didn't expect Eastern would have to dip into the cash from asset sales currently held in escrow.
we'll have to see how they {talks} come along.it's not a requirement that the plan be accepted by creditors.
court confirmation of its plan could be relatively swift.Eastern can get creditor support.
If Eastern can get creditor support, court confirmation of its plan could be relatively swift.creditors are free to press for court approval of their own plan, or the court could ignore both sides and draw its own.
But creditors are free to press for court approval of their own plan.the court could ignore both sides and draw its own.
paid.it exceeds tax figured the regular way.
The method of calculating the 20% tax is due for a change in 1990, thanks to 1986's tax act.that the concept that is to be introduced drags in great complexity.
Ways and Means Chairman Rostenkowski backed a simplification plan in the pending House tax bill.the plan turns out to be a big revenue loser.
we are left staring at rules that are almost impossible to implement.the law isn't changed.
that are almost impossible to implement.there are so many complex depreciation calculations to do.
Now the Senate's stripped-down bill omits any proposal to deal with the corporate tax.Congress still could resolve the issue with other legislation this year or next.
Amending a 1988 return to claim a refund brings cash faster.for personal losses, there are other factors to consider.
that it exceeds $100.that the year's total losses exceed 10% of adjusted gross income.
whether damaged property is owned jointly or separately.whether one spouse has larger income.
Returns for 1988 from people with six-month filing extensions were due Monday.people in the disaster areas won't be penalized for late filing if their returns are marked "Hugo" and postmarked by Jan. 16.
people in the disaster areas won't be penalized for late filing.their returns are marked "Hugo" and postmarked by Jan. 16.
Interest will be imposed on unpaid taxes.late-payment penalties on the returns will be waived if the balance due and paid is 10% or less of the liability.
but late-payment penalties on the returns will be waived.the balance due and paid is 10% or less of the liability.
Among the provisions: Fiscal-year taxpayers with returns due last Monday won't be penalized.they file -- or request an extension -- and pay tax due by Nov. 15.
Extensions can't be granted for filing employment-tax returns due Oct. 31 or for depositing withheld taxes.late penalties will be abated for deposits made by Nov. 15.
IRS Notice 89-136 describes this and other deadline relief for Hugo's victims.The notice grants relief for certain estate-tax returns.
The IRS denied cost deductions.few of the temps got to go aboard.
The IRS denied cost deductions because few of the temps got to go aboard.the Tax Court said the limitations were reasonable and realistic and allowed the deductions.
the trustee of the individual retirement account must file forms 5498 reporting market values relating to the decedent and each beneficiary, with copies to the executor and beneficiaries.AN IRA OWNER dies.
Gregory Damonne Brown of Fremont, Calif., a hardworking, reclusive young bachelor, told that story to the Tax Court.judges usually find the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income; and the IRS said Brown must have had such income because he deposited $124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 while reporting income of only $52,012.
But judges usually find the real aim is to escape tax on hidden income.the IRS said Brown must have had such income because he deposited $124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 while reporting income of only $52,012.
and the IRS said Brown must have had such income.it uncovered no source.
Brown must have had such income.he deposited $124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84 while reporting income of only $52,012.
because he deposited $124,732 in a bank account in 1982-84.reporting income of only $52,012.
Brown had no proof.testimony of his mother and stepmother about his father and of an ex-employer about his honesty and habits satisfied a judge that Brown was truthful and his tale of gifts was possible.
that Brown was truthful.his tale of gifts was possible.
that Brown was truthful.his tale of gifts was possible.
The IRS offered no evidence of hidden sources of taxable income.Judge Shields rejected its claims.
They have even sent helicopters in pursuit of bikers.hikers and equestrians complained they were being driven from trails.
Bikers -- many of them ardent environmentalists -- proclaim their sport an efficient, safe, fitness-promoting way to get back to nature.asserting a right, as taxpayers, to pedal on public lands.
Bikers -- many of them ardent environmentalists -- proclaim their sport an efficient, safe, fitness-promoting way to get back to nature.asserting a right, as taxpayers, to pedal on public lands.
Bikers -- many of them ardent environmentalists -- proclaim their sport an efficient, safe, fitness-promoting way to get back to nature, while asserting a right, as taxpayers, to pedal on public lands.the bikes' burgeoning numbers, safety concerns and fear that they damage fragile landscapes have prompted pleas, from the Sierras to the Eastern Seaboard, to ban them from the back country.
Sierra has been instrumental in securing a number of the California bans.Sierra's hard-line stance has created something of a rift in the organization.
Pressure from these members prompted the club recently to soften its anti-bike rhetoric.it no longer lumps the bikes into the same category as motorcycles and other terrain-marring off-road vehicles.
Pressure from these members prompted the club recently to soften its anti-bike rhetoric.the club still insists that public lands ought to be closed to the bikes unless studies indicate the bikes won't injure the environment or other users.
that public lands ought to be closed to the bikes.studies indicate the bikes won't injure the environment or other users.
I have a mountain bike.as a hiker I've been run off the road by kids careening down a fire trail on them.
to help rangers enforce regulations.to school riders in proper trail etiquette.
much bad riding simply reflects ignorance.some are renegade riders.
Few would have foreseen such a furor.a decade ago, some Marin County bicycle enthusiasts created a hybrid bike using fat tires, lightweight metallurgy and multi-gear technology.
they were dismissed as a fad.the bikes first entered mass production in 1981.
City dwellers love them.they shift smoothly in traffic, bounce easily over curbs and roll through road glass with far fewer flat tires than racing bikes.
The town is home to the Mountain Bike Hall of Fame.it hosts the annual Fat Tire Bike Week.
The mountain bike feels as comfortable as the `paperboy' bike you had as a kid.it can do so much more.
Stock-market tremors again shook bond prices.the dollar turned in a mixed performance.
Stock-market tremors again shook bond prices.the dollar turned in a mixed performance.
Early yesterday, investors scrambled to buy Treasury bonds for safety.stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a replay of Friday.
Early yesterday, investors scrambled to buy Treasury bonds for safety.stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a replay of Friday.
as stock prices plummeted.fears mounted of a replay of Friday.
as stock prices plummeted.fears mounted of a replay of Friday.
as stock prices plummeted and fears mounted of a replay of Friday.stocks later recovered, erasing most of their early declines.
stock prices plummeted.But stocks recovered.
The dollar initially fell against other major currencies on news that the U.S. trade deficit surged in August to $10.77 billion.the dollar later rebounded, finishing slightly higher against the yen although slightly lower against the mark.
The dollar initially fell against other major currencies on news that the U.S. trade deficit surged in August to $10.77 billion.But the dollar rebounded, finishing slightly higher against the yen although slightly lower against the mark.
finishing slightly higher against the yen.slightly lower against the mark.
In an apparent attempt to keep a lid on short-term interest rates, the Fed once again pumped money into the banking system.the Fed move was a small gesture.
Fed officials appear reluctant to ease their credit grip any further.a bold move doesn't appear necessary.
that relationship will reverse during the next few weeks.stocks have led bonds this week.
Although stocks have led bonds this week, some traders predict that relationship will reverse during the next few weeks.several other traders contend investors have overreacted to junk-bond jitters, and that stock prices will continue to recover.
investors have overreacted to junk-bond jitters.that stock prices will continue to recover.
They shot the whole orchestra.the piano player hit a bad note.
Those supermarket tabloids.Make me feel slow.I still haven't seen.
Forest-products operations strengthened in the third quarter.paper operations were dogged by higher costs, soft newsprint exports and a strong Japanese yen.
Weyerhaeuser's pulp and paper operations were up for the nine months.full-year performance depends on the balance of operating and maintenance costs, plus pricing of certain products.
export log and lumber markets will be weak.panel and plywood markets will be stronger.
Bankers Trust New York Corp. became the latest major U.S. bank to increase reserves for its loans to less-developed countries.The bank said it expects to report a $1.42 billion loss for the third quarter and a loss for the full year.
Step up to the plate.take the big swing.
Citicorp yesterday reported a 9% third-quarter earnings drop.Manufacturers Hanover Corp. posted a $789 million loss for the quarter.
while Manufacturers Hanover Corp. posted a $789 million loss for the quarter.adding $950 million to its reserve for loans to less-developed countries.
PNC Financial Corp., the parent of Pittsburgh National Bank, reported net income climbed 9.8%.net for Banc One Corp. of Columbus, Ohio, grew 3.8%.
Corporate finance and trading results in member countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development were "relatively flat, sometimes choppy.profit for the area sank 27%.
The cross-border loan portfolio reflected "adjustment problems and episodic payment patterns no interest payments from Argentina in the nine months and none from Brazil in the third quarter.Venezuela brought itself "substantially current.
The cross-border loan portfolio reflected "adjustment problems and episodic payment patterns," the bank said no interest payments from Argentina in the nine months and none from Brazil in the third quarter, while Venezuela brought itself "substantially current.the portfolio narrowed its quarterly loss to $70 million from $80 million a year earlier.
People were waiting to see if we would take an additional provision" for medium-term and long-term loans to less-developed countries.that it is comfortable with the current level of $2.6 billion.
A "concerning" item was the 10% jump in expenses, which the bank attributes to costs of expanding both its consumer credit-card operations and its overseas branch business.that the bank is maintaining those expenses in proportion to revenue growth.
Wells Fargo continued to generate one of the highest profit margins among major banks.Wells Fargo's net interest income rose $36.3 million, or 7%, to $537 million for the quarter.
Non-interest income fell slightly to $191.9 million from $193.3 million.Wells Fargo continued to rigorously control non-interest expense.
and managed to partly reverse the sharp rise in domestic non-accrual loans, which fell 8% from the previous quarter to $806.8 million from $880.9 million.the amount was still 39% higher than the year-ago level, and 25% higher as a percentage of total loans.
We didn't take part in a lot of deals" in the quarter.their credit quality was poor.
Trust income grew 15%, to $49.9 million.service charges, fees and commissions increased 22%, to $79.4 million.
Mr. Gandhi's ability to push through major initiatives might be hobbled by a thinner majority.the Congress (I) retains control of the government.
Economic analysts call his trail-blazing liberalization of the Indian economy incomplete.many are hoping for major new liberalizations if he is returned firmly to power.
for major new liberalizations.he is returned firmly to power.
Mrs. Gandhi had been assassinated by separatist Sikhs.many Indians feared their country might split apart.
In 1977, Mrs. Gandhi was thrown out of office after her 19-month emergency rule.in 1980, after her successors made a mess of their three years in power, she was restored to office.
and in 1980 she was restored to office.her successors made a mess of their three years in power.
that the Congress (I) will lose big.Mr. Gandhi's opposition unites to field single candidates in most precincts.
that if Mr. Gandhi's opposition unites to field single candidates in most precincts, the Congress (I) will lose big.if the opposition remains fractured, the Congress (I) could win a small majority, or lead a coalition government.
But the Congress (I) could win a small majority, or lead a coalition government.the opposition remains fractured.
Congress (I) will win only 150 seats, a quarter of the house.the opposition fields single candidates in 80% of the races.
the opposition will struggle this week to unite.its success will be clear only when it announces its final list of parliamentary candidates.
and its success will be clear.it announces its final list of parliamentary candidates.
and its success will be clear.it announces its final list of parliamentary candidates.
The arms-kickback scandal is likely to be one of the big talking points in the campaign.it's unclear how it is viewed by average Indian voters.
The opposition charged that the money was used to bribe Indian government officials, an allegation denied by Mr. Gandhi's administration.many of his statements on the issue in Parliament subsequently were proven wrong by documentary evidence.
The scandal has faded and flared.recent disclosures propelled it back onto the front pages.
but recent disclosures propelled it back onto the front pages.that has helped galvanize the opposition.
His term has produced no spectacular failures in politics, in the economy or on the military front, and has chalked up some successes.the average Indian had tremendous hope in the youthful leader and his promise to make both government and the ruling party more effective and less corrupt.
the government tells us to forget it.there are well problems, light problems, road problems.
its coherence is likely to be temporary.it unites for the elections.
its coherence is likely to be temporary.it unites for the elections.
a similar coalition took power and then disintegrated.the Congress (I) lost the 1977 election, following Mrs. Gandhi's hated emergency rule.
a similar coalition took power and then disintegrated.the Congress (I) lost the 1977 election, following Mrs. Gandhi's hated emergency rule.
a similar coalition took power.and disintegrated.
it can't disclose the names of the middlemen.it would jeopardize industrial confidentiality.
it hadn't seen the filing by Parsow and Elkhorn.and had no comment.
they may seek board representation.they may seek the support of CACI's board and other major shareholders in connection with their plans.
The inverse trading relationship between bonds and stocks was interrupted yesterday.bonds fell despite a modest decline in stock prices.
The inverse trading relationship between bonds and stocks was interrupted yesterday.bonds fell despite a modest decline in stock prices.
The inverse trading relationship between bonds and stocks was interrupted yesterday as bonds fell despite a modest decline in stock prices.bond investors continue to keep a close watch on the jittery stock market.
In early trading, investors were bidding bond prices higher.stocks tumbled and fears mounted that Friday's stock market debacle would be repeated.
In early trading, investors were bidding bond prices higher.stocks tumbled and fears mounted that Friday's stock market debacle would be repeated.
as stocks tumbled.fears mounted that Friday's stock market debacle would be repeated.
that Friday's stock market debacle would be repeated.a partial recovery in the Dow Jones Industrial Average dashed those expectations.
But a partial recovery in the Dow Jones Industrial Average dashed those expectations.Treasury bonds were hurt late in the day by a $4 billion offering by the Tennessee Valley Authority and the prospect of a huge amount of new agency debt.
that was a disappointment.stocks stabilized.
that was a disappointment.stocks stabilized.
But bond investors continue to keep a close watch on the jittery stock market.for the second straight day, the bond market paid little attention to the Federal Reserve's open market operations.
to keep a lid on interest rates.to boost investor confidence.
She said a more aggressive move wasn't needed.The Fed appears reluctant to ease credit conditions further.
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1/2 point, or over $5 for each $1,000 face amount.the yield moved above 8% for the first time since Thursday.
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1/2 point, or over $5 for each $1,000 face amount.the yield moved above 8% for the first time since Thursday.
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1/2 point, or over $5 for each $1,000 face amount.Investment-grade corporate, municipal and mortgage-backed securities fell.
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond fell more than 1/2 point, or over $5 for each $1,000 face amount, while the yield moved above 8% for the first time since Thursday..Investment-grade corporate, municipal and mortgage-backed securities also fell.most junk bonds closed unchanged after opening slightly higher on bargain-hunting by institutional investors.
But most junk bonds closed unchanged.opening slightly higher on bargain-hunting by institutional investors.
Treasury bonds also were hurt late in the day by a $4 billion offering by the Tennessee Valley Authority and the prospect of a huge amount of new agency debt.hedging related to the TVA pricing pressured Treasury bonds.
hedging related to the TVA pricing also pressured Treasury bonds.The TVA bonds served to remind the market that there will be even more new supply.
Today the Treasury will announce the size of its next two-year note sale.Resolution Funding Corp. will announce details of its first bond offering.
Some traders estimate $9.75 billion of new two-year Treasurys will be sold next week.they expect Refcorp to offer $4 billion to $6 billion of long-term "bailout" bonds.
Investment-grade corporate bonds ended 1/4 to 1/2 point lower.most junk bonds ended unchanged.
Investment-grade corporate bonds ended 1/4 to 1/2 point lower.most junk bonds ended unchanged.
TVA offered $2 billion of 30-year bonds priced to yield 9.06%; $1 billion in 10-year notes priced to yield 8.42%; and $1 billion in five-year notes priced to yield 8.33%.Lockheed Corp. priced a $300 million note offering to yield 9.39%.
TVA offered $2 billion of 30-year bonds priced to yield 9.06%; $1 billion in 10-year notes priced to yield 8.42%; and $1 billion in five-year notes priced to yield 8.33%.Lockheed Corp. priced a $300 million note offering to yield 9.39%.
The derivative mortgage-backed market revived after a brief hiatus.two new Remics totaling $850 million were offered and talk circulated about two more issues that could be priced today.
The derivative mortgage-backed market revived after a brief hiatus.two new Remics totaling $850 million were offered and talk circulated about two more issues that could be priced today.
as two new Remics totaling $850 million were offered.talk circulated about two more issues that could be priced today.
that it's difficult to structure new Remics.prices are moving widely.
The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 9.43% to a 12-year average life assumption.the spread above the Treasury 10-year note held at 1.42 percentage points.
The Ginnie Mae 9% issue was yielding 9.43% to a 12-year average life assumption.the spread above the Treasury 10-year note held at 1.42 percentage points.
Confusion over the near-term trend for rates dominated the municipal arena.gyrations in the stock market continued to buffet bonds.
Confusion over the near-term trend for rates dominated the municipal arena.gyrations in the stock market continued to buffet bonds.
Long tax-exempt dollar bonds were mostly flat to 3/8 point lower after a whipsaw session of moving inversely to stocks in modest dealer-led trading..Prices of pre-refunded municipal bonds were capped by news that Chemical Securities Inc., as agent for a customer, will accept bids today for two large lists of bonds that include many such issues.several new issues were priced.
pulled down by Monday's U.S. stock market gains.up by a wider-than-expected U.S. trade deficit and falling U.S. stock prices.
British government bonds surged on renewed volatility in the stock market.Japanese bonds ended weaker.
The current ceiling on home loans insured by the Federal Housing Administration would be increased to $124,875.the bill gives authority to the Bush administration to facilitate the refinancing of federally subsidized loans for low-income and moderate-income homeowners.
The second provision, affecting so-called 235 mortgages, has met strong opposition from investment bankers represented by the Public Securities Association.a squad of influential former Senate aides employed by the Wall Street firm Salomon Brothers came to the Capitol in a vain attempt to strip the provision.
By an 11-2 margin, Senate negotiators voted to preserve the 235 mortgage refinancing plan.despite powerful allies, the opposition found itself undercut by an unusual alliance of liberals and conservatives.
The government currently is subsidizing an estimated 23,000 loans above 11% under the 235 program.however disruptive to private investors, the refinancing is expected to yield at least $15 million in savings in fiscal 1990.
This sum has been guarded jealously by appropriators anxious to offset spending elsewhere.conservative Sen. Phil Gramm cast the fight as a populist stand against monied interests.
The action came.the administration won final congressional approval of $9 million in assistance for elections scheduled in Nicaragua in February.
The bulk of the money would be funneled through the National Endowment for Democracy.the legislation is so vaguely written that it has been dogged by questions regarding the money's true purpose and its ultimate destination.
The Senate had refused late Friday to invoke cloture and limit debate.behind the bipartisan leadership, a solid majority took shape yesterday and brushed aside amendments seeking to cut the total package or steer it away from direct aid to political parties.
Final approval -- on a 64-35 roll call -- was never in doubt.the opposition drew an unusual mix of senators, including Republicans Jesse Helms and Warren Rudman and Democrats Bill Bradley and John Glenn.
The money will be applied for voter registration and election monitoring.more than half is likely to go to the Union Nacional Opositora party.
such cash contributions may only undercut the opposition party's standing.one irony is that under Nicaraguan law a major portion of the opposition party's funds must be shared with the government's Supreme Electoral Council.
The decision to raise the ceiling on FHA home loans still faces strong opposition in the House.it is driven by the same fiscal pressures that have forced lawmakers to resort to various bookkeeping devices to juggle as much as $1 billion in spending that would otherwise put the bill over budget.
to juggle as much as $1 billion in spending.that would put the bill over budget.
These costs will complicate the budget picture in fiscal 1991.the measure further commits Congress to a set of costly projects, including the first construction funds for the space station.
The station is promised $1.8 billion within the $5.36 billion provided for research and development in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.the nation's high-speed aerospace plane could receive as much as $60 million in new funds or transfers.
The station is promised $1.8 billion within the $5.36 billion provided for research and development in the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the nation's high-speed aerospace plane -- cut by the Senate -- could receive as much as $60 million in new funds or transfers.the House agreed to add back $62 million to continue work on the advanced communications technology satellite, being developed by General Electric Co.
Similarly, the House agreed to add back $62 million to continue work on the advanced communications technology satellite.while setting a statutory limit of $1.6 billion on the automated space probe, the conference appropriated $30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission, a successor to the Voyager space probe.
And the conference appropriated $30 million for the start-up of the CRAF-Cassini mission, a successor to the Voyager space probe.setting a statutory limit of $1.6 billion on the automated space probe.
An estimated $1.57 billion is separately allocated for the National Science Foundation.within the Housing and Urban Development Department, more than $9.2 billion is provided for federally assisted housing, including an expanded effort to modernize public housing units that serve the poorest families.
the conference agreement is laced with veterans' hospitals, environmental projects and urban grants designated for specific communities.the practice was discouraged in the past.
where the two houses had separately approved a total of 27 projects valued at $20 million.the conference added 15 more valued at $8 million to ostensibly preserve "balance" between the House and Senate.
where the two houses had separately approved a total of 27 projects valued at $20 million.the conference added 15 more valued at $8 million to ostensibly preserve "balance" between the House and Senate.
Yesterday's conference agreement is the second major bill to emerge from negotiations this week.appropriators approved a fiscal 1990 transportation bill late Monday that includes a sweeping ban on smoking on most domestic airline flights.
Yesterday's conference agreement is the second major bill to emerge from negotiations this week.a third conference report covering an $18.4 billion Treasury and Postal Service bill was sent to the Senate.
Separately, a third conference report covering an $18.4 billion Treasury and Postal Service bill was sent to the Senate.passing the House on a 383-30 roll call yesterday.
Separately, a third conference report covering an $18.4 billion Treasury and Postal Service bill was sent to the Senate.passing the House on a 383-30 roll call yesterday.
Separately, a third conference report covering an $18.4 billion Treasury and Postal Service bill was sent to the Senate after passing the House on a 383-30 roll call yesterday.after weeks of delay, the appropriations process is beginning to take some final shape.
Defense and foreign aid are the two most critical areas remaining from the administration's standpoint.among domestic programs, the most serious threat is White House opposition to abortion riders attached to separate bills funding the District of Columbia and Department of Health and Human Services.
The same issue threatens to spill over to the foreign aid debate.Mr. Bush also is threatening to veto any agreement that preserves Senate-passed provisions renewing U.S. support for the United Nations Fund for Population Activities.
The same issue threatens to spill over to the foreign aid debate.and Mr. Bush is threatening to veto any agreement that preserves Senate-passed provisions renewing U.S. support for the United Nations Fund for Population Activities.
Markets usually get noticed.they soar or plunge.
Gold tried to rally on Monday but ran into the same situation that has subdued gold prices for more than a year.stock market investors seeking greater safety are veering toward buying bonds rather than precious metals.
Also stock market investors seeking greater safety are veering toward buying bonds rather than precious metals.we are tending more toward a disinflationary economy that doesn't make gold and precious metals attractive.
when they bought gold.the stock market crashed.
and ended up losing money.gold prices subsequently fell.
At the moment gold traders aren't concerned about inflation.as for the dollar, "gold's association with the currency has been diminishing recently so drops in the currency aren't having much impact on gold.
and as for the dollar, "gold's association with the currency has been diminishing recently.drops in the currency aren't having much impact on gold.
There is little incentive on the part of traders to sell gold.the stock market may go lower and gold may retain some of its `flight to safety' quality.
because the stock market may go lower.gold may retain some of its `flight to safety' quality.
because the stock market may go lower.gold may retain some of its `flight to safety' quality.
There is little incentive to buy gold.if the stock market goes higher, it may be just a false alarm.
because it may be just a false alarm.the stock market goes higher.
I don't know what it means over the long run.for the short term, it appears that gold producers are grateful for the $10 or so that gold has risen over the past week or so.
letting prices rise as much as possible.selling.
The dollar hasn't reacted much to it.gold hasn't either.
Crude oil prices rose slightly in lackluster activity.traders in the pits tried to assess action in the stock market.
Crude oil prices rose slightly in lackluster activity.traders in the pits tried to assess action in the stock market.
participants in all markets have been wary.stock market indexes plummeted last Friday.
participants in all markets have been wary.stock market indexes plummeted last Friday.
oil prices are expected to rise as supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration.traders become confident that the stock market has stabilized.
oil prices are expected to rise as supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration.traders become confident that the stock market has stabilized.
to rise.supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration.
to rise.supply and demand fundamentals once again become the major consideration.
Crude oil for November delivery edged up by 16 cents a barrel to $20.75 a barrel.Heating oil prices rose.
The prices of cattle, hogs and pork belly futures contracts rebounded.livestock traders shook off fears that the Friday stock market plunge would chill consumer spending, which in turn would hurt retail sales of beef and pork.
The prices of cattle, hogs and pork belly futures contracts rebounded.livestock traders shook off fears that the Friday stock market plunge would chill consumer spending, which in turn would hurt retail sales of beef and pork.
that the Friday stock market plunge would chill consumer spending.which would hurt retail sales of beef and pork.
that the Friday stock market plunge would chill consumer spending.which would hurt retail sales of beef and pork.
The prices of cattle, hogs and pork belly futures contracts rebounded as livestock traders shook off fears that the Friday stock market plunge would chill consumer spending.Cattle futures prices were supported yesterday by signs that supermarket chains are making plans to increase their promotions concerning beef.
Traders are especially sensitive to reports of possible U.S. soybean sales.U.S. exports are lagging.
Corn futures prices rose slightly.wheat prices settled mixed.
The nations of southern Africa know a lot about managing elephants.the nations of Europe and North America have decided they know better.
Many delegates were willing to craft a compromise.U.S. delegate Constance Harriman and others thundered that down.
they would not honor what one Zimbabwean delegate wryly called the "made in Switzerland" solution.they seemed a mite resentful.
About 45% of requests for SBA relief loans come from small businesses, compared with a 25% business share after most disasters.which are available to homeowners.
it was flooded with 10,000 calls.NBC weather man Willard Scott broadcast the hot-line number.
it was flooded with 10,000 calls.NBC weather man Willard Scott broadcast the hot-line number.
It helps us.people feel better talking to someone who's gone through the same thing.
HEALTH BENEFITS remain a central lobbying effort.Section 89 fades.
The Senate still is expected to join the House in voting to kill the law, which forces companies to provide comparable benefits to laborers and executives alike.deleting Section 89 repeal from its deficit-reduction bill.
after deleting Section 89 repeal from its deficit-reduction bill.The Senate is expected to join the House in voting to kill the law.
In lobbying on other health-coverage topics, the National Federation of Independent Business will press for legislation that would give self-employed people a 100% tax deduction for their own health plans, up from 25% currently.the group will urge that the federal government pre-empt state rules on what must be covered by employers' health insurance.
And the group will urge that the federal government pre-empt state rules on what must be covered by employers' health insurance.Small-business groups will fight the medical-leave provision of legislation that would expand parental leaves.
Small-business groups also will fight the medical-leave provision of legislation that would expand parental leaves.they still oppose as too costly an employer-paid health insurance bill sponsored by Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.) despite his proposal to phase in small business only gradually.
And they still oppose as too costly an employer-paid health insurance bill sponsored by Sen. Edward Kennedy (D., Mass.) despite his proposal to phase in small business only gradually.There is worry that the Pepper Commission studying long-term health care will again push lawmakers toward employerpaid solutions.
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) was outraged.a private word to John Motley, lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business, resulted in a news release saying that the Senate Finance Committee chairman would recommend repeal of Section 89.
Sen. Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) was outraged.a private word to John Motley, lobbyist for the National Federation of Independent Business, resulted in a news release saying that the Senate Finance Committee chairman would recommend repeal of Section 89.
it was issued without the senator's permission.the announcement was true in the end.
Small-business suppliers want prisons to stop getting high priority.prison production grows with swelling inmate populations.
Small-business suppliers want prisons to stop getting high priority.prison production grows with swelling inmate populations.
The plan would increase the warranty on auto-emission systems to eight years or 80,000 miles from five years or 50,000 for major parts.the warranty on simpler parts would be lowered to two years or 24,000 miles.
they would benefit.car owners would be less likely to go back to dealers for the simpler repairs after two years.
The garage owners say they would benefit because car owners would be less likely to go back to dealers for the simpler repairs after two years.The repair shops aren't united.
the longer the warranty, the longer customers will automatically return to new-car dealers.which find non-warranty work that might otherwise go to repair shops.
which then find non-warranty work.that might go to repair shops.
they'd prefer to work in or own a small company.most take jobs with large concerns.
Mr. McKinney, 50 years old, was chairman and chief executive of American Fletcher Corp., Indianapolis.that bank holding company merged into Banc One in January 1987.
Mr. McKinney plans to retire.the process of affiliating American Fletcher into Banc One "is considered completed.
the proposed recaptilization may "limit the company's ability to realize its profit potential.that paying dividends from a new series of preferred could squeeze "basic business operations.
the voices of skepticism were all but drowned out by an international chorus of euphoria.the Soviets announced their last soldier had left Afghanistan in February.
the voices of skepticism were all but drowned out by an international chorus of euphoria.the Soviets announced their last soldier had left Afghanistan in February.
a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul, the refugees sit in their camps, and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever.Gen. Boris Gromov walked across the bridge into the U.S.S.R.
a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul, the refugees sit in their camps.the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever.
Those who bought that illusion are now bewildered.there never was a chance that the Afghan resistance would overthrow the Kabul regime quickly and easily.
The terms of the Geneva accords leave Moscow free to provide its clients in Kabul with assistance of any kind -- including the return of Soviet ground forces.requiring the U.S. and Pakistan to cut off aid.
that U.S. aid to the resistance would continue.Soviet aid to Kabul did.
that U.S. aid to the resistance would continue.Soviet aid to Kabul did.
The only fly in the Soviet ointment was the last-minute addition of a unilateral American caveat, that U.S. aid to the resistance would continue as long as Soviet aid to Kabul did.as soon as the accords were signed, American officials sharply reduced aid.
But American officials sharply reduced aid.the accords were signed.
Since the troop withdrawal, Moscow has poured in an additional $200 to $300 million worth per month -- nearly $2 billion since February, equivalent to the total U.S. aid to the resistance in nine years.By early May, Moscow had delivered 1,000 trucks, about 100 tanks, artillery and hundreds of other combat vehicles.
that the regular Afghan infantry is filled with reluctant conscripts.this is not the entire Afghan army, and it is no longer Kabul's only military force.
But this is not the entire Afghan army.it is no longer Kabul's only military force.
Complete units have been trained and indoctrinated in the U.S.S.R. and other East bloc nations; 30,000 to 40,000 of these troops have returned.the regime has established well-paid paramilitary forces totaling more than 100,000, including 35,000 Soviet-trained troops of the Interior Ministry (KHAD/WAD).
they are now dependent on it.not all these forces are committed to the regime.
they are now dependent on it.not all these forces are committed to the regime.
Even if not all these forces are committed to the regime, they are now dependent on it.thousands of Afghan children have been taken to the Soviet Union, where they are hostage for the behavior of their families.
Since 1981, Indian military advisers have been assisting the Kabul regime.Cuban military personnel have been active in Afghanistan since 1979.
Those who bought that illusion are now bewildered..Eight months after Gen. Boris Gromov walked across the bridge into the U.S.S.R., a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul, the refugees sit in their camps, and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever.serious questions have been raised about the claimed withdrawal of Soviet forces.
President Zia of Pakistan repeatedly stated that fresh Soviet troops were being inserted into Afghanistan even as others were ostentatiously withdrawn.his assassination in 1988.
that fresh Soviet troops were being inserted into Afghanistan.others were ostentatiously withdrawn.
a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul, the refugees sit in their camps, and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever.the Kabul regime is increasingly successful at portraying the resistance as bloody-minded fanatics.
a Soviet-controlled regime remains in Kabul, the refugees sit in their camps, and the restoration of Afghan freedom seems as far off as ever.the Kabul regime is increasingly successful at portraying the resistance as bloody-minded fanatics.
This heavy outside support for the worst has undermined better, moderate leaders.In autumn last year the regime garrison at Kandahar was prepared to surrender the city to resistance moderates..At the last minute, however, Pakistani officials sent in Gulbuddin Hekhmatyar, perhaps the most hated and feared of the extremists, with a demand that the surrender be made to his forces.
In autumn last year, for example, the regime garrison at Kandahar was prepared to surrender the city to resistance moderates.At the last minute Pakistani officials sent in Gulbuddin Hekhmatyar, perhaps the most hated and feared of the extremists, with a demand that the surrender be made to his forces.
The deal fell through.Kandahar remains a major regime base.
The deal fell through.Kandahar remains a major regime base.
to use guerrilla action and siege tactics to wear down the regime.they were pressured by Pakistan's ISI, the channel for their support, into attacking Jalalabad.
not that the resistance has failed to topple the Kabul regime.that it continues to exist and fight at all.
they had resumed military aid to the resistance months.it was cut off.
they had resumed military aid to the resistance months after it was cut off.it is not clear how much is being sent or when it will arrive.
how much is being sent.when it will arrive.
Thus far there is no indication that they have been re-supplied with Stingers or other anti-aircraft weapons.U.S. officials have indicated to the press that the continuation of aid depends on what success the weakened resistance achieves by the end of this year.
Nothing stirred the soul of Ronald Reagan and his disciples as much as the crusade to aid Nicaragua's Contra rebels, or the dream of building a space-based defense shield to knock out Soviet nuclear missiles.under Mr. Reagan's preferred successor, President Bush, those two cherished national-security causes are withering on the vine.
Yet under Mr. Reagan's preferred successor, President Bush, those two cherished national-security causes are withering on the vine.surprisingly, little more than a whimper of protest is being heard.
And, surprisingly, little more than a whimper of protest is being heard.Reaganauts once breathed fire supporting the Contras and the Strategic Defense Initiative.
The programs have arthritis.you look around . . . and you say, `Who are the leaders?.Who is going to carry the water.
you look around.you say, `Who are the leaders?.Who is going to carry the water.
you look around.you say, `Who are the leaders?.Who is going to carry the water.
Mr. Bush hasn't been a passionate champion of either cause, as Mr. Reagan was.he nominally supports both programs.
that there isn't more of a conservative outcry.the Bush administration lets the programs slip down the national-priority list.
A combination of factors -- a weariness among some conservatives, a decline in the perception of a Soviet threat and a preoccupation with other issues -- seem to explain the strange tranquility.Above all conservative Republicans who have championed both the Contras and SDI are reluctant to attack a Republican president for failing to do more.
Above all, though, conservative Republicans who have championed both the Contras and SDI are reluctant to attack a Republican president for failing to do more.that reluctance may be receding.
We want to complain, we want to say something about it.we're going to as it gets worse.
and we're going to.it gets worse.
We want to complain, we want to say something about it, and we're going to as it gets worse.it's like kicking your father in the pants.
You hate to do it.he's your father.
to provide nonlethal aid to the Contras.Nicaragua holds national elections next February.
Mr. Bush has struck a deal with congressional leaders to provide nonlethal aid to the Contras.the administration has dropped any effort to win military aid for the rebels.
But the administration has dropped any effort to win military aid for the rebels.the administration's deal with Congress gives several congressional committees the right to cut off even humanitarian aid next month.
And the administration's deal with Congress gives several congressional committees the right to cut off even humanitarian aid next month.the committees are likely to let aid continue until February.
there's little prospect the Contras can be a significant fighting force without U.S. arms.after the February election their future in any form will be murky at best.
The administration continues to support SDI, or Star Wars.it recently lobbied to persuade the Senate to restore some of the funds it planned to cut from the program.
and it recently lobbied to persuade the Senate to restore some of the funds it planned to cut from the program.just last week, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney gave a strong speech listing "compelling reasons" to push ahead with SDI and saying he'd urge President Bush to veto a defense bill with "inadequate" funding for the program.
And just last week, Defense Secretary Dick Cheney gave a strong speech listing "compelling reasons" to push ahead with SDI and saying he'd urge President Bush to veto a defense bill with "inadequate" funding for the program.the strong pitch by Mr. Cheney may be too little too late to prevent damage to SDI.
The House has already voted for a deep cut in funding.in the end the program's backers will be hard pressed to head off some reduction in spending next year.
The House has already voted for a deep cut in funding, and in the end the program's backers will be hard pressed to head off some reduction in spending next year.while the defense secretary is speaking out, President Bush himself hasn't launched any high-visibility campaign to drum up support, as President Reagan did.
And President Bush himself hasn't launched any high-visibility campaign to drum up support, as President Reagan did.The administration acknowledges that it isn't pursuing Mr. Reagan's original vision of an "impenetrable shield" protecting the whole U.S., but rather a more modest version.
The Soviets have agreed to complete a treaty cutting strategic weapons without including restrictions on space-based defenses.the Soviets also are insisting that they will reserve the right to withdraw from the completed strategic-arms treaty later on if the U.S. does SDI testing or deployment that the Soviets think violates the existing anti-ballistic-missile treaty.
The Soviets have agreed to complete a treaty cutting strategic weapons without including restrictions on space-based defenses.But the Soviets are insisting that they will reserve the right to withdraw from the completed strategic-arms treaty later on if the U.S. does SDI testing or deployment that the Soviets think violates the existing anti-ballistic-missile treaty.
It will be hard down the road to persuade Congress to approve money for SDI plans if lawmakers fear those plans could scuttle a completed treaty.Frank Gaffney, a former Reagan Pentagon aide who now heads the Center for Security Policy, charges that the administration's "professions of continued commitment to development and deployment of the SDI program strain credulity.
More ominous to SDI supporters, the Bush administration appears to have tacitly accepted a new arms-control proposal from the Soviet Union that spells long-term trouble for Star Wars.proponents may be shying away from more drumbeating because they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI.
Still, proponents may be shying away from more drumbeating.they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI.
because they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI.the public perceives the Soviet threat is declining under Mikhail Gorbachev.
because they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI.the public perceives the Soviet threat is declining under Mikhail Gorbachev.
Still, proponents may be shying away from more drumbeating because they sense political tides have turned against arming the Nicaraguan rebels or boosting spending on SDI.some conservatives may simply be so pleased that their anti-communist philosophy is prevailing that they don't have the fire at the moment to push controversial programs.
In fact some conservatives may simply be so pleased that their anti-communist philosophy is prevailing that they don't have the fire at the moment to push controversial programs.communism seems to be beating a global retreat.
Some activists are toiling to raise the profile of the two causes.they can't make much headway because of a lack of willing leaders in a position to turn the tide.
Other conservative champions, like Wyoming Republican Sen. Malcolm Wallop, a longtime SDI advocate, don't have the clout with the Bush White House that they enjoyed with President Reagan.Above all neither the Contra nor the SDI cause can be pushed much further without more presidential support.
What I'd like to see is for Reagan to take to the hustings to regenerate enthusiasm for SDI.he is up to it.
His recent speech caused an uproar.its title leaked out.
His recent speech caused an uproar.its title leaked out.
that other participants in the conference "do not believe that the rights of Americans should be guaranteed to citizens who are homosexual.that "I mean to persuade you to the opposite view.
we need to do the same for animals.we have finally recognized that American blacks have rights.
we need to do the same for animals.we have finally recognized that American blacks have rights.
Mr. Allen objected to this analogy.it seems to "assimilate the status of blacks to that of animals -- as a mere project of charity, of humaneness.
He last made waves.he dared to defend an Indian girl who had been adopted by non-Indian parents off her reservation.
There is a huge divide between Mr. Allen's we're-all-in-this-together view and the divisive litigation approach of the civil rights groups.the gap is so large that Mr. Allen's critics refuse to engage the debate.
The exhibition by the U.S.-U.S.S.R..Trade and Economic Council underscores the growing U.S. interest in that nation's market.trade between the two countries is a minuscule $3 billion.
In Beijing, meantime, China opened an international aviation show.the West's embargo on military deals and uncertainty about the nation's stability kept many foreign exhibitors away.
A Daikin executive in charge of exports.the high-purity halogenated hydrocarbon was sold to the Soviets in 1986.
Daikin's "responsibility is heavy.illegal exports lowered international trust in Japan.
it is abandoning a proposed $650 million tree-farming project in Indonesia.it no longer expects to use as much eucalyptus pulp as previously anticipated.
The eucalyptus plantation and pulp mill, which would have covered about 175,000 acres in the Irian Jaya region, had been approved by Indonesia's investment board.it was opposed by some environmentalists as a threat to Irian Jaya's forests and a potential source of social unrest for the primitive tribes who inhabit them.
With funds of 5.56 billion Hong Kong dollars (US$712 million), the new company, Yaohan International Co., plans to acquire 10 of Hong Kong's top restaurants.It intends to set up an international wholesale market with the Singapore government next May and to open a department store in Bangkok and shopping centers in Malaysia, Taiwan, Canada, Chicago and Seattle by December 1990.
to set up an international wholesale market with the Singapore government next May.to open a department store in Bangkok and shopping centers in Malaysia, Taiwan, Canada, Chicago and Seattle by December 1990.
Christie's will soon have a sale of Dada and Symbolist art.Sotheby's is luring collectors with sales of Swiss, German, Spanish, Australian and Canadian paintings.
Christie's will soon have a sale of Dada and Symbolist art.Sotheby's is luring collectors with sales of Swiss, German, Spanish, Australian and Canadian paintings.
Everything has to be the same between countries.there'll be fair competition.
Everything has to be the same between countries.there'll be fair competition.
the numbers were better than expectations, partly because of strong profit margins and a positive foreign-currency translation.the company's flat revenue was a disappointment, and an indication that sales of Polaroid's new conventional film in the U.S. have been sluggish.
there isn't a lot here to base optimism on.you believe that a good performance next year is contingent on an acceleration of revenue.
I don't know about disappointing.that the company hasn't been able to get the product on the shelves of some mass-merchandise, discount retailers that it had hoped would be carrying the product already.
It plunged 60.25 points before lunch.it rebounded to finish down only 18.65 points.
Yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average did a now familiar dance: It plunged 60.25 points before lunch, with most of the drop occurring in 25 minutes..Then, it rebounded to finish down only 18.65 points.those swings paled beside Friday's 190.58-point plunge and Monday's 88.12-point recovery.
It's madness.apparently, it is here to stay.
There are many reasons for the market's jumpiness: new trading vehicles such as stock-index futures and options; computer-driven strategies like program trading; and crowd psychology.most are linked by a single theme: liquidity -- the ability to get in and out of the market quickly.
Prices are moving up and down so fast.investors are employing ways to turn over shares at ever-faster rates and increasingly acting in concert.
Like lemmings, we tend to move in the same direction at same time.that, naturally, exacerbates price movements.
Institutions count on being able to buy and sell big blocks of stock at an eye-blink.when they discover that markets aren't always as liquid as they supposed -- markets jump.
But markets jump.they discover that markets aren't always as liquid as they supposed.
But markets jump.they discover that markets aren't always as liquid as they supposed.
But when they discover that markets aren't always as liquid as they supposed -- markets jump.On Monday Howard Ward, a principal at Scudder, Stevens & Clark, found that "you couldn't buy blue-chips at quoted prices without paying up." And when many firms had to "pay up," Monday's sudden rally was sparked.
that "you couldn't buy blue-chips at quoted prices without paying up.when many firms had to "pay up," Monday's sudden rally was sparked.
And Monday's sudden rally was sparked.many firms had to "pay up.
And Monday's sudden rally was sparked.many firms had to "pay up.
that is, a way of staying liquid.they own stocks.
that is, a way of staying liquid.they own stocks.
It's the idea that what goes in easy can come out easy.bouts of higher volatility get built into the stock market.
One new investment style called "asset allocation" shifts portfolio weightings between stocks, bonds and cash.computer models say one is more attractive.
One new investment style called "asset allocation" shifts portfolio weightings between stocks, bonds and cash when computer models say one is more attractive.First Quadrant Corp., an asset allocator based in Morristown, N.J., said it quickly boosted stock positions in its "aggressive" accounts to 75% from 55% to take advantage of plunging prices Friday.
It added another 5% Monday.stocks rallied.
the firm reduced those stock holdings to about 70%.they did.
by selling futures.stock prices dropped.
Before the 1987 crash, an estimated $60 billion in institutional money was managed under this hedging technique.in October 1987, when portfolio insurers rushed to sell at the same time, they overwhelmed both the stock and futures markets.
But in October 1987, when portfolio insurers rushed to sell at the same time, they overwhelmed both the stock and futures markets.even today, institutions are quietly practicing forms of portfolio insurance by nervously rushing to and fro in the markets.
Unlike traditional buy-and-hold strategies, all of the above require that market makers be on hand to provide liquidity by buying and selling stocks in a crunch.Wall Street brokerage firms are less willing to make markets.
Wall Street brokerage firms are less willing to make markets.Lack of liquidity can result from exchange "reforms.
that "circuit breakers" put in place to damp volatility after the 1987 crash actually added to volatility.the stock market plunged Friday.
The circuit breakers caused a 30-minute shutdown in trading in Standard & Poor's 500-stock index futures contract.the markets were falling.
they put you in a room with a gorilla and told you there were three doors to exit.they said, `By the way, two of the doors are locked.
that "circuit breakers" put in place to damp volatility after the 1987 crash actually added to volatility when the stock market plunged Friday.The takeover mania adds to volatility.
the stock tumbled.the deal ran into trouble.
the stock tumbled.the deal ran into trouble.
There are many reasons for the market's jumpiness: new trading vehicles such as stock-index futures and options; computer-driven strategies like program trading; and crowd psychology.traditional buy-and-hold investors are unlikely to generate sudden price moves.
the current volatility in U.S. markets pales in comparison to the 1930s, decades before derivative instruments such as options and futures were introduced.that before Friday's tailspin, daily volatility on the New York Stock Exchange in recent weeks had reached "historically low levels.
than it was.the stock market was lower.
that "1988 and 1989 have been two of the least volatile years in the last 30 or 40 years.the low average volatility Mr. Phelan is talking about isn't any comfort in a period of rapid stock-market moves like the past week.
But the low average volatility Mr. Phelan is talking about isn't any comfort in a period of rapid stock-market moves like the past week.volatile jumps in stock prices will continue as long as liquidity falls short of the voracious demands of institutions "who can go out and say `I have a billion dollars of stocks to sell.
volatile jumps in stock prices will continue.liquidity falls short of the voracious demands of institutions "who can go out and say `I have a billion dollars of stocks to sell.
volatile jumps in stock prices will continue.liquidity falls short of the voracious demands of institutions "who can go out and say `I have a billion dollars of stocks to sell.
part of the network will carry analyses of Galileo data once the craft gets spaceborn.the network isn't connected to the computer systems that operate either Galileo or the shuttle.
part of the network will carry analyses of Galileo data.the craft gets spaceborn.
the intruder hadn't yet done any harm.the agency feared "garbage data could be substituted for real data.
the Galileo worm hadn't affected its computers or the computers of other government agencies.they had modified their systems to reject worms.
the Galileo worm hadn't affected its computers or the computers of other government agencies because they had modified their systems to reject worms.the worm hit universities that hadn't elected to make the changes.
it will display a screen that says, "Worms Against Nuclear Killers. . . . You talk of times of peace for all, and then prepare for war.a user logs on.
If it finds one and gets into the system, it will display a screen when a user logs on that says, "Worms Against Nuclear Killers. . . . You talk of times of peace for all, and then prepare for war.the worm sends strange messages to other machines at the center -- such as, "George Orwell was an optimist," or "Don't feed the bats tonight.
In addition the worm sends strange messages to other machines at the center -- such as, "George Orwell was an optimist," or "Don't feed the bats tonight.The worm looks for elementary passwords that confer more privileges on the user.
The passwords are included in the system software.it is installed.
but are supposed to be replaced.the system is up and running.
the worm will do such things as change users' passwords to a series of random numbers.it finds one of those passwords.
it will take about a week.it knows exactly how many centers of the 6,000 connected to Internet were affected and the extent of the damage, if any.
Anti-nuclear activists have protested the launch of the Galileo space probe to Jupiter.it uses plutonium to generate the electricity needed to run the craft.
that if the shuttle carrying Galileo into orbit should explode.if Galileo itself crashes into the Earth during the two times it flies close to the planet.
It is now a commonplace that prosecutors are bringing criminal indictments in cases where until a few years ago only a civil action at most would have been brought.it is also axiomatic that the power to create new crimes belongs only to the legislature, and not to courts.
It is now a commonplace that prosecutors are bringing criminal indictments in cases where until a few years ago only a civil action at most would have been brought.Yet it is axiomatic that the power to create new crimes belongs only to the legislature, and not to courts.
that a judicial power to declare conduct to be against the public interest and hence criminal would usurp legislative authority under the doctrine of separation of powers.well established in British law.
That's the conventional theory anyway.In practice the line between interpretation and redefinition of the criminal law long ago began to blur.
In practice, however, the line between interpretation and redefinition of the criminal law long ago began to blur.a common law of white-collar crime has developed with surprising rapidity over the past decade.
In particular, a common law of white-collar crime has developed with surprising rapidity over the past decade.although insider trading has long been criminal, it has never been statutorily defined.
For example it has never been statutorily defined.insider trading has long been criminal.
whether the tipper had breached his fiduciary duty to the corporation in order to obtain "some personal gain.whether the tippee knew or recklessly disregarded this fact.
In 1983, the Supreme Court tried to supply a workable definition in the Dirks v..SEC decision, which found that liability depended on whether the tipper had breached his fiduciary duty to the corporation in order to obtain "some personal gain" and whether the tippee knew or recklessly disregarded this fact.Gradually lower courts and prosecutors have pushed this definition to its breaking point.
She called her daughter to take her to the bank.who persuaded her husband, a Mr. Loeb, to run this errand.
the husband discussed it with his broker, Mr. Chestman.Mr. Chestman then bought for his own account and other clients.
the husband discussed it with his broker, Mr. Chestman.Mr. Chestman then bought for his own account and other clients.
the husband discussed it with his broker, Mr. Chestman.and Mr. Chestman bought for his own account and other clients.
and to whom.so.
and how.so.
Did Mr. Loeb, his tipper, breach a fiduciary duty Did Mr. Loeb seek personal gain.did Mr. Chestman only hear a market rumor.
Essentially, Mr. Freeman had invested heavily in the Beatrice leveraged buy-out.he was told by another prominent trader, Bernard "Bunny" Lasker, that the deal was in trouble.
Mr. Freeman called Martin Siegel, an investment banker at Kidder, Peabody & Co. to confirm these rumors.placing orders to sell.
Was there a fiduciary breach in order to obtain personal gain?.Did Mr. Freeman have notice of this.was the information material.
Had the case gone to trial the same issues would have surfaced.all these issues are subsidiary to a more central issue.
It is not my contention that either Mr. Chestman or Mr. Freeman was an innocent victim of prosecutorial overzealousness..Arguably, both were on notice that their behavior was at least risky.even if they behaved recklessly, reasons still exist to fear and resist this steady process of case-by-case judicial extension of the law of insider trading.
But reasons still exist to fear and resist this steady process of case-by-case judicial extension of the law of insider trading.they behaved recklessly.
this method has the undeniable strengths of factual specificity and avoidance of overgeneralization.only civil liability is involved.
this method has the undeniable strengths of factual specificity and avoidance of overgeneralization.case-by-case retrospective decision making of this sort is vulnerable to the tunnel vision caused by a fixation on ad hoc (and usually sleazy) examples.
it does not see the potentially enormous number of other cases that will be covered by the expanded rule.a court decides that a particular actor's conduct was culpable and so extends the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct.
that a particular actor's conduct was culpable.and extends the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct.
When a court decides that a particular actor's conduct was culpable and so extends the definition of insider trading to reach this conduct, it does not see the potentially enormous number of other cases that will be covered by the expanded rule.a court is poorly positioned to make judgments about the social utility of the expanded rule.
Thus, a court is poorly positioned to make judgments about the social utility of the expanded rule.in focusing on Mr. Freeman's attempt to gain nonpublic information about a deal's collapse, one does not naturally think about the reverse side of the coin: What if the rumor had been false.
In the past, not only would reputable professionals have rushed to check out such rumors with the company.companies listed on the major stock exchanges were encouraged by the exchanges to respond openly to such inquiries from securities analysts.
the legislature typically will hear the views of representatives of all those affected by its decision, not just the immediate parties before the court.it acts.
Before it acts, the legislature typically will hear the views of representatives of all those affected by its decision, not just the immediate parties before the court.the legislature can frame "bright line" standards that create less uncertainty than the fact-bound decisions of courts.
judicial lawmaking inevitably creates uncertainty because of the shadowy outer edges and implications of most judicial decisions.legislative lines can result in under-inclusion.
uncertainty in turn results in overinclusion.the stakes are high.
judicial lawmaking inevitably creates uncertainty because of the shadowy outer edges and implications of most judicial decisions.uncertainty results in overinclusion.
uncertainty in turn results in overinclusion.individuals do not dare to approach an uncertain line closely.
In 1987, the Supreme Court attempted in McNally v..U.S. to halt the inexorable expansion of these statutes by adopting a rule of strict construction for ambiguous criminal statues.late last year, Congress effectively reversed this decision by enacting a one-sentence statute that defined fraud to include any scheme to deprive another of "the intangible right of honest services.
Congress finds it is easier to pass sweepingly moralistic prohibitions.which the courts must interpret.
Predictably prosecutors will exploit the latitude such openended statutes give them.confronted with morally dubious behavior.
Predictably, when confronted with morally dubious behavior, prosecutors will exploit the latitude such openended statutes give them.Over the long run sleazy cases will make bad law.
operating performance continued to be strong in the telecommunications and health and science segments.the specialty-material segment slowed somewhat and consumer products continued below expectations.
But the specialty-material segment slowed somewhat.consumer products continued below expectations.
profit was "essentially flat" due primarily to a slow recovery at Samsung-Corning Co. in Korea following a strike at a major customer and the disruption of shipments to China.profit was hurt by the strength of the dollar overseas which negatively affected the company's currency-exchange rate.
Within 10 minutes after an 11:13 a.m. trading halt in UAL, parent of United Airlines, the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged nearly 27 points to a 60.25-point deficit.Computer-guided buying kicked in.
Within 10 minutes after an 11:13 a.m. trading halt in UAL, parent of United Airlines, the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged nearly 27 points to a 60.25-point deficit.Computer-guided buying kicked in.
Computer-guided buying then kicked in.the industrials regained 27 points in five minutes.
Computer-guided buying then kicked in.the industrials regained 27 points in five minutes.
to limit their buying to blue-chip stocks.dumping takeover-related issues.
to limit their buying to blue-chip stocks.dumping takeover-related issues.
Investors were buying yesterday.they were running scared to premier blue chips such as Procter & Gamble, which jumped 3 3/8 to 127.
Citicorp fell 1/2 to 32.Manufacturers Hanover slipped 3/8 to 40 1/4.
In the first hour of trading, about one million shares a minute changed hands on the Big Board.big stock-index arbitrage sell programs pushed prices lower.
In the first hour of trading, about one million shares a minute changed hands on the Big Board.big stock-index arbitrage sell programs pushed prices lower.
Delta Air Lines fell 1 7/8 to 67 7/8, USAir Group dropped 3/4 to 40 1/4, Southwest Airlines dipped 1/2 to 25.Alaska Air Group slid 3/8 to 24 1/4.
Aside from computer-guided selling, airline stocks took a beating as well..The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 49.96 to close at 1254.27.Texas Air, the owner of Continental and Eastern airlines, bucked the group's decline by rising 7/8 to 14 5/8 in American Stock Exchange trading.
it is ahead of schedule in resuming its operations.filing earlier this year for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
Philip Morris, the most active Big Board issue for the second consecutive session, was unchanged at 43 1/4 on 3.9 million shares.Other blue-chip consumer issues fared relatively well.
Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3/4.McDonald's closed unchanged at 30 1/2.
PepsiCo rose 1 3/8 to 58 1/2; Coca-Cola Co. was unchanged at 66 3/4; McDonald's also closed unchanged at 30 1/2.Merck rose 1/2 to 75 1/4.
The Dow Jones Transportation Average fell 49.96 to close at 1254.27.Broader averages fell.
Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.69 to 341.16.the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index fell 0.88 to 188.89.
which closed down 2 1/8 to 121 1/4..Philips Industries tumbled 3/8 to 22 7/8; Hilton Hotels fell 2 1/2 to 92.Holiday Corp. fell 2 1/8 to 69 7/8.
International Paper fell 1 3/8 to 51 1/2, Union Carbide eased 7/8 to 25, Chevron gained 1/8 to 64.Eastman Kodak closed down 3/4 to 44 1/4.
In the first hour of trading, about one million shares a minute changed hands on the Big Board.Trading was heavy in the over-the-counter market.
if guys see that they can make a quick 10% or 15% profit, they'll take it.there is a lot more volatility now.
they'll take it.guys see that they can make a quick 10% or 15% profit.
it may be forced to file under Chapter 11.it can't reach an agreement with its lenders to relieve its debt burden.
the turmoil on Wall Street may benefit managers who plan to bid for U.S. retailing units of the British firm.takeover prices may not be as high as before the recent correction.
reacting to the news about improved recovery in flight schedules.the company filed for bankruptcy protection.
a profit is expected for all of fiscal 1990.Enviropact's financial situation raises "substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern.
ONE LIBERTY PROPERTIES Inc. declared a dividend of 40 cents a share on its $16.50 cumulative convertible preferred stock, payable Jan. 2 to stock of record Dec. 8.directors of the Great Neck, N.Y., real estate investment trust didn't act on the common stock dividend.
But directors of the Great Neck, N.Y., real estate investment trust didn't act on the common stock dividend.they won't consider such a dividend before results are available for the first quarter of 1990.
And they won't consider such a dividend.results are available for the first quarter of 1990.
October is a big rollover month.perhaps they anticipate greater demand . . . among people leaving the stock market.
deposits Monday were about $5 million higher than usual.it expects more activity as investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock.
and it expects more activity.investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock.
and it expects more activity.investors receive the proceeds from sales of stock.
there hasn't yet been "a discernible response.the ad included a coupon that could arrive later in the week.
when a number of banks and thrifts already have promotions under way.First National Bank of Boston is offering certain new depositors an extra quarter of a percentage point on six-month and 12-month CDs.
Some banks actually boosted yields on the shortest term CDs in the latest week.New York's Citibank increased the yield on small-denomination three-month CDs to 8% from 7.9%.
Some banks actually boosted yields on the shortest term CDs in the latest week.On average three-month CDs at major banks are yielding a tenth of a percentage point less than they were a week ago.
Six-month CDs of $50,000 and less yielded an average 8.02% in the week ended Tuesday, down from 8.10%, according to Banxquote..The yield on six-month T-bills fell to 7.82% on Monday, from 8.01% the week before.the average yield on six-month CDs of more than $90,000 fell to 7.93% in the latest week, according to Banxquote, from 8.10% the week before.
Six-month CDs of $50,000 and less yielded an average 8.02% in the week ended Tuesday, down from 8.10%, according to Banxquote..The yield on six-month T-bills fell to 7.82% on Monday, from 8.01% the week before.the average yield on six-month CDs of more than $90,000 fell to 7.93% in the latest week, according to Banxquote, from 8.10% the week before.
that actual rates are almost identical on small and large-denomination CDs.yields on CDs aimed at the individual investor are boosted by more frequent compounding.
Meanwhile, the average yield on six-month CDs of more than $90,000 fell to 7.93% in the latest week, according to Banxquote, from 8.10% the week before.CDs sold by major brokerage houses posted larger drops in yields.
CDs sold by major brokerage houses also posted larger drops in yields.A six-month, broker-sold CD was yielding an average 8.09% in the latest week, a fifth of a percentage point lower than the week before.
rates were down about half a percentage point.the market drop.
the administration probably will agree to a multibillion-dollar increase.the U.S. share of the increase probably will not reach the $12 billion or more implicit in the IMF's request for a doubling of its $90 billion capital.
there is a clear economic case against it.international politics may argue for the capital increase.
that the IMF practices central planning.supporting ineffective governments.
that the IMF practices central planning.supporting ineffective governments.
that the administration give assurances that liberal Democrats' support will not be used against them in congressional re-election campaigns.that the legislation address -- with dollars -- social and environmental concerns.
a scaled-down IMF mission would leave both feeling shortchanged.commercial banks and the developing-country governments believe they will get a piece of any capital increase.
a scaled-down IMF mission would leave both feeling shortchanged.a U.S. rejection of the capital increase (and transfer of shares to Japan) would give Japan an argument against future calls for economic burden-sharing.
Furthermore, a U.S. rejection of the capital increase (and transfer of shares to Japan) would give Japan an argument against future calls for economic burden-sharing.a decision to increase the IMF's capital would reinforce the central economic role of multilateral institutions in developing countries.
Upping the ante could slow economic development even further.countries delay market-opening steps in anticipation of richer multilateral support.
Upping the ante could slow economic development even further.countries delay market-opening steps in anticipation of richer multilateral support.
conservatives don't support an increase in the IMF's capital.it is incumbent on them to speak up now and explain the alternative.
The Merc fined Mr. Roberts $15,000 and suspended his trading membership for three years.he and Mr. Stein were ordered to make restitution of $35,000 to a customer.
that as part of the disciplinary settlement man admitted.denied the alleged violations.
In a move that could pose a new competitive challenge to Time Warner Inc. 's powerful Home Box Office, cable giant Tele-Communications Inc. agreed to buy half of Showtime Networks Inc. from Viacom Inc. for $225 million.which has discussed the sale of an interest in Showtime with other cable operators.
HBO has close to 24 million subscribers to its HBO and Cinemax networks.Showtime and its sister service, The Movie Channel, have only about 10 million, according to Paul Kagan Associates, a Carmel, Calif., research firm.
as the largest cable operator, with control of close to 12 million of the nation's 52 million cable subscribers, TCI is HBO's largest customer.TCI President John Malone has long been concerned about HBO's dominance of the pay TV business, and has been eager to keep Showtime as a healthy competitor.
Showtime's suit against HBO "doesn't involve us.nothing we're doing here bears any relationship to that.
Time Warner owns American Television & Communications Inc., the nation's second largest cable operator after TCI.Viacom owns cable systems.
Viacom also owns cable systems.it is the 14th largest operator of such systems, with less than one million subscribers.
The fight between HBO and Showtime is particularly acrimonious.Mr. Biondi is the former chief executive of HBO, and Mr. Cox served as chief of marketing for the service.
Mr. Biondi is the former chief executive of HBO.Mr. Cox served as chief of marketing for the service.
Boeing Co., already struck by its Machinists union, briefly called off contract talks with its engineers and labeled their demands "grossly excessive.however, the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association after a federal mediator intervened, according to the union.
Boeing Co. briefly called off contract talks with its engineers.Later the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association according to the union.
Later, however, the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association according to the union.a federal mediator intervened.
Later, however, the company agreed to meet on Monday with the Seattle Professional Engineering Employees Association after a federal mediator intervened, according to the union.a federal mediator is scheduled to meet today with Boeing officials and representatives of 55,000 striking Machinists.
that would have provided a 10% pay raise plus bonuses over the three-year life of the contract.It would have reduced mandatory overtime.
Investor Asher Edelman increased his stake in Intelogic Trace Inc. and cleared the way for additional purchases.It wasn't clear whether the actions were related to a battle between the corporate raider and New York attorney Martin Ackerman for control of Datapoint Corp., a San Antonio, Texas-based data-processing systems maker.
Intelogic Trace, a computer services company, was spun off to Datapoint holders in 1985.Mr. Edelman gained control.
the corporate raider purchased 30% of Datapoint's shares.Mr. Ackerman announced he was soliciting consents from shareholders in order to wrest control of Datapoint from Mr. Edelman.
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Mr. Edelman said from Sept. 29 to Oct. 13, he acquired 309,500 shares of Intelogic common shares for $2.25 to $2.375 each.The filing said certain provisions which apply to persons acquiring 20% or more of Intelogic common stock, were waived by Intelogic for Mr. Edelman.
that current government policy is failing to stem the AIDS epidemic.it suggests the use of condoms can make sex "safe.
because it suggests the use of condoms can make sex "safe.The only safe sex is sex between uninfected partners.
The only safe sex is sex between uninfected partners.testing is the only way to learn of infection.
The federal government should make free, voluntary testing for the AIDS virus the cornerstone of an expanded campaign to stop the spread of acquired immune deficiency syndrome.that federal and state governments provide free treatment to all who test positive.
An unexpectedly sharp widening in the U.S. trade gap for August dragged the dollar lower Tuesday.profit-taking on short positions helped the currency rebound to close mixed against major counterparts.
Soon after the release of the U.S. trade figures, the dollar plunged to an intraday low of 140.95 yen.It declined against the mark but didn't reach its intraday low of 1.8435 marks until two hours later.
that while the figures appear to indicate a sadly deteriorating U.S. trade performance.there's enough positive news in the data to justify buying dollars.
that while the U.S. trade gap with Canada has widened significantly, the trade deficit with Western Europe and Japan continues to narrow.that manufactured goods exports are still rising.
In Tokyo Wednesday, the U.S. currency opened for trading at 142.55 yen, unchanged from Tuesday's Tokyo close.the U.S. currency fell to about 142.25 yen on news reports of the San Francisco earthquake.
that the recent injection of liquidity into the U.S. banking system has been modest.they don't anticipate significant easing by the U.S. Federal Reserve.
The move, which injects capital into the system, is seen as an effort to reassure the finanicial markets that the U.S. central bank is ready to provide the ample liquidity.other analysts contend that while the Fed's move to loosen credit hasn't been aggressive, it nevertheless sends a clear signal that, at least for now, the Fed has relaxed its grip on credit.
while the Fed's move to loosen credit hasn't been aggressive.that it sends a clear signal that, at least for now, the Fed has relaxed its grip on credit.
it settled a four-year-old patent infringement case against Linear Technology Corp. by accepting a $3 million payment from Linear in exchange for granting Linear irrevocable licenses for all products involved.The two companies agreed to settle any future property rights issues over the next 10 years through binding arbitration.
Linear Technology, Milpitas, Calif., called the settlement "positive.products covered by the disputed patents account for about 20% of its annual sales.
The first two games of the World Series between the Oakland Athletics and San Francisco Giants didn't finish in the top 10.they landed in 16th and 18th place.
NBC had five of the top 10 shows; ABC had four.CBS had one.
P&G already sells its Folgers ground roast coffee to food service concerns, but not to as many markets as Maryland Club.P&G up until now hasn't sold coffee to airlines and does only limited business with hotels and large restaurant chains.
Houston-based Maryland Club Foods sells coffee under the Maryland Club and Butter-Nut brands to restaurants, hotels, offices and airlines.Maryland Club distributes tea.
to repay existing short-term debt.to finance capital spending.
President Bush will veto a bill funding the Departments of Labor, Education and Health and Human Services.it would allow federal funding of abortions for victims of rape and incest.
Mr. Bush had threatened a veto previously.he put off a firm decision while his aides and legislators searched for a compromise that would tighten requirements for such abortions in a way acceptable to the president.
But he put off a firm decision.his aides and legislators searched for a compromise that would tighten requirements for such abortions in a way acceptable to the president.
it will be extremely difficult for Mr. Bush's opponents on the abortion issue to round up the votes needed to override the veto.there still may be prolonged debate and political maneuvering that holds up the $156.7 billion funding bill for the fiscal year that began Oct. 1.
he personally approves of abortions in the cases of rape, incest and danger to the life of the mother.he has opposed Medicaid funding of abortions for poor women who say they are victims of rape and incest.
DFC asked the central bank to appoint managers.it revised loan-loss provisions to around the same level of shareholders' funds of 180 million New Zealand dollars (US$105.4 million).
An experimental vaccine can alter the immune response of people infected with the AIDS virus.that doesn't mean they can benefit from the vaccine.
Its effectiveness can't be determined.a large clinical trial is undertaken by the Army in January, according to Robert Redfield, chief of acquired immune deficiency syndrome research at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research.
why infected people produce large quantities of antibodies.but deteriorate.
it reached an agreement to sell its Wiedemann division to recently created Murata Wiedemann Inc., a U.S. affiliate of Murata Machinery Ltd. of Kyoto, Japan.The agreement includes the purchase of Cross & Trecker's Warner & Swasey (Switzerland) AG unit by a European affiliate of Murata Machinery.
to sell its Wiedemann division to recently created Murata Wiedemann Inc., a U.S. affiliate of Murata Machinery Ltd. of Kyoto, Japan The agreement also includes the purchase of Cross & Trecker's Warner & Swasey (Switzerland) AG unit by a European affiliate of Murata Machinery.Cross & Trecker is selling its equity interest in a Japanese joint venture, Murata Warner Swasey, to Murata Machinery.
Bids totaling $465 million were submitted.accepted bids were at 8.292%.
The average interest rate fell to 8.292% at Citicorp's $50 million weekly auction of 91-day commercial paper, or corporate IOUs, from 8.483% at last week's sale.that the average rate fell to 7.986% at its $50 million auction of 182-day commercial paper from 8.1255% at last week's sale.
Bids totaling $415 million were submitted.accepted bids were at 7.986%.
its 1989 first-half profit soared 88%.that its previous estimate of a 50% rise in earnings for all of 1989 will be exceeded by a wide margin.
the sharp improvement in net profit partly reflected a decline of 59 million francs in the group's net loss from nonrecurring items in the first half of this year to 104 million francs from 163 million a year earlier.There was a decline in the group's net financial costs to 25 million francs from 50 million a year before.
the sharp improvement in net profit partly reflected a decline of 59 million francs in the group's net loss from nonrecurring items in the first half of this year to 104 million francs from 163 million a year earlier..There was also a decline in the group's net financial costs to 25 million francs from 50 million a year before.These movements were offset by a steep rise in corporate income tax payments to 199 million francs from 35 million in the first six months of 1988.
The original bill was strongly opposed by the Fed and publicly criticized by friends of the Fed as an attempt to undermine the central bank's independence.Fed critics hailed it as a long overdue attempt to bring a measure of openness and democracy to the setting of monetary policy.
Polyvinyl chloride capacity "has overtaken demand.we are experiencing reduced profit margins as a result.
Polyvinyl chloride capacity "has overtaken demand.we are experiencing reduced profit margins as a result.
Polyvinyl chloride capacity "has overtaken demand.and we are experiencing reduced profit margins.
Third-quarter operating profit of the specialty-chemicals group declined slightly to $24.3 million from $24.9 million.operating profit from aerospace products rose nearly 50% to $15 million from $10.1 million.
Fiat S.p..A., Italy's leading industrial group, is conducting "concrete" talks with West Germany's Daimler-Benz AG on a series of projects in the aerospace sector.it was too early to disclose the nature of the proposed projects or indicate when the talks might be concluded.
there currently are no talks in progress regarding the automotive industry.Mr. Reuter's comments please us very much.
he is thinking foremost of cooperation in the truck sector.in the long run, I don't want to rule out that we can also come a bit closer in personal cars.
he is thinking foremost of cooperation in the truck sector.that we can come a bit closer in personal cars.
Mr. Boudreau will remain with Penn Pacific as a director and a member of the executive committee.He has agreed to become president of a new subsidiary to be formed to make future acquisitions.
Jaguar topped the most-active list for the U.S. over-the-counter market Monday.on London's Stock Exchange Monday, 18.5 million shares were traded, far above the usual volume.
Fears that Ford's ardor might be cooling put Jaguar shares into reverse.GM confirmed its friendly negotiations with Jaguar.
Fears that Ford's ardor might be cooling put Jaguar shares into reverse.yesterday's announcement indicates that Ford hasn't lost interest.
Sit tight" through the coming volatility, Mr. Reitman suggests.he concedes that many small investors will find Jaguar's zigzags "too hard to swallow.
that many small investors will find Jaguar's zigzags "too hard to swallow.a crucial point is how Ford reacts when GM, the world's largest auto maker, firms up its proposed deal with Jaguar.
that many small investors will find Jaguar's zigzags "too hard to swallow.a crucial point is how Ford reacts when GM, the world's largest auto maker, firms up its proposed deal with Jaguar.
how Ford reacts.GM, the world's largest auto maker, firms up its proposed deal with Jaguar.
to inject roughly #200 million ($316 million) by acquiring some Jaguar shares.and win Jaguar management's promise of an eventual 30% stake.
GM is expected to inject roughly #200 million ($316 million) by acquiring some Jaguar shares, and then win Jaguar management's promise of an eventual 30% stake.the car makers will create joint ventures to develop new executive models.
Ford might challenge the proposal by offering a full bid.holders and the U.K. government agreed to drop the anti-takeover barrier early.
GM might counterbid.you get a bidding war between two very rich, very determined international companies.
There's quite a bit of value left in the {Jaguar} shares here.they have run up" lately.
Of course, that was.Ford's latest move.
to remain on the board.his current term expires in April 1991.
The board isn't proposing a slate of its own.the other four current directors don't want to serve beyond the special meeting date.
Positive currency rates and strong sales growth led to a substantial rise in consolidated profit in the period.the company didn't provide figures.
Microsoft Corp. 's earnings growth continued to outstrip that of most of its competitors and customers in the personal-computer industry.it reported a 36% jump in fiscal first-quarter earnings on a 33% revenue gain.
Microsoft Corp. 's earnings growth continued to outstrip that of most of its competitors and customers in the personal-computer industry.it reported a 36% jump in fiscal first-quarter earnings on a 33% revenue gain.
The Redmond, Wash. company, a bellwether provider of operating systems and software for personal-computer makers and users, reported net income for the quarter ended Sept. 30 of $49.6 million, or 87 cents a share, up from $36.6 million, or 65 cents a share, in the year-ago period.Microsoft indicated it would have a strong quarter by forecasting its revenue gain on Oct. 4, causing a $6.50 a share jump in its stock.
Microsoft previously indicated it would have a strong quarter by forecasting its revenue gain on Oct. 4, causing a $6.50 a share jump in its stock.its stock jumped again yesterday as it disclosed surprisingly strong margins on those sales.
But its stock jumped again yesterday.it disclosed surprisingly strong margins on those sales.
But its stock jumped again yesterday.it disclosed surprisingly strong margins on those sales.
The company had been experiencing softening margins because of increased sales of software applications.that trend was offset in the first quarter by better economies of scale and efficiencies in manufacturing.
that trend was offset in the first quarter by better economies of scale and efficiencies in manufacturing.Microsoft's cost of goods, as a percentage of sales, fell 17% from the year-ago quarter and 13% from the previous period.
that trend was offset in the first quarter by better economies of scale and efficiencies in manufacturing.the strong results reflected continuing high demand for its software applications and operating systems.
its own products are selling at a much faster rate.it has predicted that overall growth in unit sales of personal computers is slowing to about a 10% yearly rate.
its own products are selling at a much faster rate.many are geared to the high-performance end of the market.
That segment continues to post strong quarter-to-quarter gains.the low-end, or commodity segment, of the industry is experiencing sluggish growth or even sales declines.
Compared with its previous quarter, the final period of its 1989 fiscal year, net rose 9%.sales rose 7%.
Control Data said it expects its first RISC-based mainframe machine to be introduced next year.Control Data said it is developing what it called a "supermainframe" computer, the Cyber 2000.
UAL'S STOCK SKIDDED an additional $24.875, to $198.British Airways indicated it may balk at any hastily revised version of the aborted $6.79 billion buy-out of United Air's parent.
UAL'S STOCK SKIDDED an additional $24.875, to $198.British Airways indicated it may balk at any hastily revised version of the aborted $6.79 billion buy-out of United Air's parent.
it may balk at any hastily revised version of the aborted $6.79 billion buy-out of United Air's parent.he remains interested in UAL.
it may balk at any hastily revised version of the aborted $6.79 billion buy-out of United Air's parent.he remains interested in UAL.
he remains interested in UAL.he dropped his earlier $300-a-share back-up bid.
The Dow Jones industrials closed off 18.65 points, at 2638.73.plunging over 60.25 points in the morning.
Bond prices ended lower after an early rally.the dollar was mixed.
Exports declined for the second month in a row.imports rose to a record.
Eastern Airlines' creditors have begun exploring alternative approaches to a Chapter 11 reorganization.they are unhappy with the carrier's latest proposal.
Mr. Ely, 57 years old, temporarily increases the board to seven members.he won't seek re-election at the company's annual meeting next month.
not to immediately tender their shares under a recent $72-a-share, or $104 million, bid from AB SKF of Sweden.McGill directors have completed their evaluation.
BroadBeach didn't identify the buyer of the shares.the date of the selloff followed by one day the Swedish concern's tender offer, and the indicated price of the shares sold equals SKF's $72-a-share tender offer price.
the company sold the stock in the open market.and couldn't identify the buyer or buyers.
whether it has spread.whether there is a recurrence following treatment.
but isn't having a major impact.it is only occasionally useful in choosing the most effective treatment.
because it is only occasionally useful in choosing the most effective treatment.the test may prove to be more sensitive in determining whether a tumor has spread or returned following treatment.
the combination should provide "synergies.It will hand Unilab new markets.
It also will hand Unilab new markets.In Los Angeles Central has had a strong market position while Unilab's presence has been less prominent, according to Mr. Harlow.
In Los Angeles, for example, Central has had a strong market position according to Mr. Harlow.Unilab's presence has been less prominent.
Couch-potato jocks watching ABC's "Monday Night Football" can now vote during halftime for the greatest play in 20 years from among four or five filmed replays..Two weeks ago, viewers of several NBC daytime consumer segments started calling a 900 number for advice on various life-style issues.the new syndicated "reality" show "Hard Copy" records viewers' opinions for possible airing on the next day's show.
Interactive telephone technology has taken a new leap in sophistication.television programmers are racing to exploit the possibilities.
Eventually viewers may grow bored with the technology and resent the cost.right now programmers are figuring that viewers who are busy dialing up a range of services may put down their remote control zappers and stay tuned.
One of the leaders behind the expanded use of 900 numbers is Call Interactive.Other long-distance carriers have begun marketing enhanced 900 service.
Other long-distance carriers have also begun marketing enhanced 900 service.special consultants are springing up to exploit the new tool.
For a while, high-cost pornography lines and services that tempt children to dial (and redial) movie or music information earned the service a somewhat sleazy image.new legal restrictions are aimed at trimming excesses.
In recent months, the technology has become more flexible and able to handle much more volume.callers of 900 numbers would just listen and not talk, or they'd vote "yes" or "no" by calling one of two numbers.
Before, callers of 900 numbers would just listen and not talk.they'd vote "yes" or "no" by calling one of two numbers.
Now, callers are led through complex menus of choices to retrieve information they want.the hardware can process 10,000 calls in 90 seconds.
For several years, Turner Broadcasting System's Cable News Network has invited viewers to respond nightly to topical issues.even the hottest controversies on CNN log only about 10,000 calls.
The subject will be written into the plots of prime-time shows.viewers will be given a 900 number to call.
Callers will be sent educational booklets.the call's modest cost will be an immediate method of raising money.
Profit from the calls goes to charity.ABC Sports also uses the calls as a sales tool.
Profit from the calls goes to charity.but ABC Sports uses the calls as a sales tool.
Frank Gifford offers a football videotape for $19.95.thanking callers for voting.
Frank Gifford offers a football videotape for $19.95.5% of callers stay on the line to order it.
that now "tens of thousands" of fans call its 900 number each week to vote for the best punt return, quarterback sack, etc.NBC Sports recently began "Scores Plus," a year-round, 24-hour 900 line providing a complex array of scores, analysis and fan news.
that now "tens of thousands" of fans call its 900 number each week to vote for the best punt return, quarterback sack, etc.NBC Sports recently began "Scores Plus," a year-round, 24-hour 900 line providing a complex array of scores, analysis and fan news.
Press one.you're pregnant.
coupons and a newsletter will be mailed, and the sponsor will be able to gather a list of desirable potential customers.the caller stays on the line and leaves a name and address for the sponsor.
coupons and a newsletter will be mailed.the sponsor will be able to gather a list of desirable potential customers.
She wouldn't say what the premium is.it's believed to be about 40% above regular daytime rates.
We were able to get advertisers to use their promotion budget for this.they get a chance to do couponing.
We were able to get advertisers to use their promotion budget for this, because they get a chance to do couponing.we were able to attract some new advertisers because this is something new.
And we were able to attract some new advertisers.this is something new.
This service identifies each caller's phone number.it can be used to generate instant mailing lists.
Hard Copy," the new syndicated tabloid show from Paramount Pictures, will use its 900 number for additional purposes that include research.much bigger changes ahead.
TV programmers could let audiences vote on different endings for a movie.it would be costly to shoot multiple versions.
TV programmers could let audiences vote on different endings for a movie.Someday, viewers may choose different depths of news coverage.
I'm interested in just the beginning of story No. 1.I want story No. 2 in depth.
that it would continue to pursue "other alternatives" to sell the five core companies.that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- Integrated Resources Equity Corp., Resources Trust Co. and Integrated Resources Asset Management Corp.
Integrated Resources Inc., the troubled financial-services company that has been trying to sell its core companies to restructure debt, said talks with a potential buyer ended Integrated said that it would continue to pursue "other alternatives" to sell the five core companies and that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- Integrated Resources Equity Corp., Resources Trust Co. and Integrated Resources Asset Management Corp.Integrated said it expects to report a second-quarter loss wider than the earlier estimate of about $600 million.
The company didn't disclose the new estimate.said the change was related to Integrated's failure to sell its core businesses, as well as "other events that occurred after its announcement last week that it was in talks with the unidentified prospective buyer.
that it would continue to pursue "other alternatives" to sell the five core companies and that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- Integrated Resources Equity Corp., Resources Trust Co. and Integrated Resources Asset Management Corp.a number of top sales producers from Integrated Resources Equity will meet this afternoon in Chicago to discuss their options.
that it would continue to pursue "other alternatives" to sell the five core companies and that a group of senior executives plans to make a proposal to purchase three of the companies -- Integrated Resources Equity Corp., Resources Trust Co. and Integrated Resources Asset Management Corp.a number of top sales producers from Integrated Resources Equity will meet this afternoon in Chicago to discuss their options.
AN EARTHQUAKE STRUCK Northern California, killing more than 50 people.The violent temblor caused the collapse of a 30-foot section of the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge and shook Candlestick Park.
Some buildings collapsed, gas and water lines ruptured.fires raged.
The tremor was centered near Hollister, southeast of San Francisco.which caused damage in San Jose and Berkeley.
where the third game of baseball's World Series was canceled.fans evacuated from the stadium.
East Germany's Politburo met amid speculation that the ruling body would oust hard-line leader Honecker.about 125 refugees flew to Duesseldorf, West Germany, from Warsaw, the first airlift in East Germany's refugee exodus.
Moscow could be suspended.the misuse of psychiatry against dissenters is discovered during a review within a year.
lung-cancer mortality rates for people under 45 years of age have begun to decline, particularly for white males.that overall U.S. mortality rates from lung cancer should begin to drop in several years if cigarette smoking continues to abate.
that overall U.S. mortality rates from lung cancer should begin to drop in several years.cigarette smoking continues to abate.
that the U.S. would stand by its security commitments.there is a threat" from Communist North Korea.
that there's a clarification needed" on its interpretation.Bush wouldn't alter a longstanding ban on such involvement.
that Austrian President Waldheim wasn't responsible for the execution of six British commandos in World War II.he probably was aware of the slayings.
London has concluded that Austrian President Waldheim wasn't responsible for the execution of six British commandos in World War II.The report by the Defense Ministry rejected allegations that Britain covered up evidence of Waldheim's activities as a German army officer.
Libyan leader Gadhafi met with Egypt's President Mubarak.the two officials pledged to respect each other's laws, security and stability.
Los Angeles financier Marvin Davis last night proffered both a ray of hope and an extra element of uncertainty by saying he remains interested in acquiring UAL.he dropped his earlier $300-a-share back-up bid.
British Airways, a 15% partner in the buying group, indicated it wants to start from scratch.Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. scrambled to line up bank financing for a revised version of the lapsed labor-management bid.
UAL executives planned to reinvest only $15 million in the new company.Mr. Wolf and John Pope, UAL's chief financial officer, stood to pocket $114.3 million for stock and options in the buy-out.
Confusion about the two banks' hurried efforts to round up financing for a new bid that the UAL board hasn't even seen yet helped send UAL stock spiraling downward.rumors of forced selling by takeover-stock traders triggered a 25-point downdraft in the Dow Jones Industrial Average around 11:15 a.m. EDT yesterday.
Yesterday's selling began.a Japanese news agency reported that Japanese banks were ready to reject a revised version at around $250 a share, or $5.65 billion.
Several reports gave vague or conflicting indications about whether banks would sign up.the day progressed.
Several reports as the day progressed gave vague or conflicting indications about whether banks would sign up.Citicorp said only that it had "expressions of interest of a transaction from both the borrowers and the banks," but didn't have an agreement.
Late in the day, Mr. Wolf issued a onepage statement calling Mr. Peterpaul's blast "divisive and uncalled for.he gave few details on the progress toward a new bid.
that British Airways may balk at any hasty reformulation of the aborted $6.79 billion buy-out of United Airlines' parent Even as Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. scrambled to line up bank financing for a revised version of the lapsed labor-management bid, British Airways, a 15% partner in the buying group, indicated it wants to start from scratch Adding insult to injury, United's 25,000-member Machinists' union, which helped scuttle financing for the first bid, yesterday asked UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL directors to resign..A similar demand was made by a group that represents some of United's 26,000 noncontract employees that Japanese banks, which balked at the first bid, were ready to reject a revised version at around $250 a share, or $5.65 billion.in another sign that a new bid isn't imminent, it was learned that the UAL board held a telephone meeting Monday to hear an update on the situation, but that a formal board meeting isn't likely to be convened until early next week.
that British Airways may balk at any hasty reformulation of the aborted $6.79 billion buy-out of United Airlines' parent Even as Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp. scrambled to line up bank financing for a revised version of the lapsed labor-management bid, British Airways, a 15% partner in the buying group, indicated it wants to start from scratch Adding insult to injury, United's 25,000-member Machinists' union, which helped scuttle financing for the first bid, yesterday asked UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL directors to resign..A similar demand was made by a group that represents some of United's 26,000 noncontract employees that Japanese banks, which balked at the first bid, were ready to reject a revised version at around $250 a share, or $5.65 billion.in another sign that a new bid isn't imminent, it was learned that the UAL board held a telephone meeting Monday to hear an update on the situation, but that a formal board meeting isn't likely to be convened until early next week.
that the UAL board held a telephone meeting Monday to hear an update on the situation.that a formal board meeting isn't likely to be convened until early next week.
The pilots were meeting outside Chicago yesterday.British Air apparently wasn't involved in the second proposal.
A group of United's noncontract employees said in a statement, "The fact that Wolf and other officers were going to line their pockets with literally millions of dollars while instituting severe pay cuts on the nonunion employees of United is not only deplorable but inexcusable.The machinists asked for an investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission into possible securities-law violations in the original bid for UAL by Mr. Davis, as well as in the response by UAL.
Last week the union asked the U.S. Labor Department to study whether the bid violated legal standards of fairness governing employee investment funds.the bank commitments were due.
our approach is sound.that it is far better for all employees than the alternative of having an outsider own the company with employees paying for it just the same.
Mr. Wolf has eschewed merger advice from a major Wall Street securities firm.relying only on a takeover lawyer, Peter Atkins of Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom.
The huge drop in UAL stock prompted one takeover stock trader, George Kellner, managing partner of Kellner, DiLeo & Co., to deny publicly rumors that his firm was going out of business.The stock's decline has left the UAL board in a quandary.
it may have to explore alternatives if the buyers come back with a bid much lower than the group's original $300-a-share proposal.it may not be legally obligated to sell the company if the buy-out group can't revive its bid.
to sell the company.the buy-out group can't revive its bid.
to consider the labor-management bid.At a meeting Sept. 1 the board was informed by its investment adviser, First Boston Corp., of interest expressed by buy-out funds including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Forstmann Little & Co., as well as by Robert Bass, Morgan Stanley's buy-out fund, and Pan Am Corp.
that Mr. Davis or one of the other interested parties might re-emerge with the situation in disarray.that the board might consider a recapitalization.
of interest expressed by buy-out funds including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Forstmann Little & Co., as well as by Robert Bass, Morgan Stanley's buy-out fund, and Pan Am Corp.they were still hesitant about accepting Citicorp's latest proposal.
of interest expressed by buy-out funds including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. and Forstmann Little & Co., as well as by Robert Bass, Morgan Stanley's buy-out fund, and Pan Am Corp.they were still hesitant about accepting Citicorp's latest proposal.
Macmillan will own about 56% of the Berlitz common stock outstanding.the offering is completed.
Five million shares will be offered in the U.S.3.4 million additional shares will be offered in concurrent international offerings outside the U.S.
to pay an $80 million cash dividend to Macmillan.to lend the remainder of about $128 million to Maxwell Communications in connection with a promissory note.
Right away you notice the following things about a Philip Glass concert.if still conscious at the evening's end, you notice something else.
And you notice something else: The audience, at first entranced and hypnotized by the music, releases its pent-up feelings in collective gratitude.still conscious at the evening's end.
Either one likes it.one doesn't.
The typical Glass audience, which is more likely to be composed of music students than their teachers, certainly does.The work sounds like Muzak for spaceships.
Philip Glass is the emperor of the avant-garde.his music the new clothes.
The piano compositions are relentlessly tonal.unthreatening.
unvaryingly rhythmic.soporific.
and unflaggingly harmonious but unmelodic.both pretty and unconventional.
Far from being minimalist, the music unabatingly torments us with apparent novelties not so cleverly disguised in the simplicities of 4/4 time, octave intervals, and ragtime or gospel chord progressions.the music has its charm.
But the music has its charm.Mr. Glass has constructed his solo program around a move from the simple to the relatively complex.
Mr. Glass works in the two octaves on either side of middle C.his fingers seldom leave the keys.
The music is not especially pianistic.it's hard to imagine a bad performance of it.
We hear inner voices.they all seem to be saying the same thing.
The chords modulate.there is little filigree.
but there is little filigree.his fingers begin to wander over more of the keys.
First the music is loud.it becomes soft.
then it becomes soft.it becomes louder again.
The Fourth Knee Play," an interlude from "Einstein on the Beach," is like a toccata.it doesn't seem to move much beyond its left-hand ground in "Three Blind Mice.
he crosses his hands and hits a resonant bass note with his right hand.Mr. Glass decides to get really fancy.
In "Mad Rush an A section alternates with a B section several times.the piece ends unresolved.
Not only is the typical Glasswork open-ended.it is often multiple in its context(s).
Mad Rush" began its life as the accompaniment to the Dalai Lama's first public address in the U.S.Mr. Glass played it on the organ at New York's Cathedral of St. John the Divine.
Mad Rush" began its life as the accompaniment to the Dalai Lama's first public address in the U.S., when Mr. Glass played it on the organ at New York's Cathedral of St. John the Divine.it was performed on Radio Bremen in Germany.
Later it was performed on Radio Bremen in Germany.then Lucinda Childs took it for one of her dance pieces.
Later it was performed on Radio Bremen in Germany.and Lucinda Childs took it for one of her dance pieces.
Parts 1, 2, and 5 come from the soundtrack of Errol Morris's acclaimed film, "The Thin Blue Line.the two other parts from incidental music to two separate dramatizations of the Kafka story of the same name.
the music has an appropriate eeriness.used as background in this way.
When used as background in this way, the music has an appropriate eeriness.Served up as a solo the music lacks the resonance provided by a context within another medium.
that the 1974 "Music in Twelve Parts" is as encyclopedic and weighty as "The Well-Tempered Clavier.this comparison ignores the intensely claustrophobic nature of Mr. Glass's music.
But this comparison ignores the intensely claustrophobic nature of Mr. Glass's music.making the obvious point that both composers develop variations from themes.
it is negotiating the sale of a second stake in Yamatake-Honeywell.it intends to hold at least 20% of the joint venture's stock long term.
to reduce its holding in the Japanese concern as part of a restructuring plan.which calls for a reduction of dependence on weapons sales.
This statement surely buttresses your editorial viewpoint that environmental protection is generally silly or excessive.it is simply wrong.
This fatuous statement was not taken seriously.enacted in 1972.
The Clean Water Act contains no "legal standard" of zero discharge.you do the public a great disservice when Mr. Greve suggests, even facetiously, that the Clean Water Act prohibits the preparation of a scotch and water.
Thus, you do the public a great disservice.Mr. Greve suggests, even facetiously, that the Clean Water Act prohibits the preparation of a scotch and water.
that nothing but chance or oversight protects them from the hairyknuckled knock of the Sierra Club at their doors.they cower in the night with their scotch and waters.
the magazine just hasn't kept up with the times.now, the magazine is attempting to fight back, with an ambitious plan including a revamped sales strategy and a surprisingly aggressive ad campaign.
People didn't believe we were in tune with the marketplace.in many ways we weren't.
The magazine had its best year yet in 1988, when it celebrated its centennial and racked up a 17% gain in ad pages, to 283.this year, when the hullabaloo surrounding its centennial died, so too did some advertiser interest.
But this year so too did some advertiser interest.the hullabaloo surrounding its centennial died.
that the entire magazine business has been soft.National Geographic has some quirks that make it especially unattractive during a soft market.
the high page cost is a major deterrent for advertisers.ad dollars are tight.
the page costs you an arm and a leg to develop any frequency.National Geographic offers far more readers than does a magazine like Smithsonian.
regional editions allowing advertisers to appear in only a portion of its magazines.ads can run only in the magazines sent to subscribers in the largest 25 markets.
National Geographic, like other magazines, began offering regional editions allowing advertisers to appear in only a portion of its magazines.the magazine was slower than its competitors to come up with its regional editions.
than did competitors.Time magazine has more than 100 separate editions going to different regions, top management, and other groups.
Another sticking point for advertisers was National Geographic's tradition of lumping its ads together, usually at the beginning or end of the magazine, rather than spreading ads out among its articles.National Geographic's smaller-than-average size means extra production costs for advertisers.
But the magazine was slower than its competitors to come up with its regional editions Another sticking point for advertisers was National Geographic's tradition of lumping its ads together, usually at the beginning or end of the magazine, rather than spreading ads out among its articles And National Geographic's smaller-than-average size means extra production costs for advertisers.the magazine is fighting back.
It now offers 30 regional editions, it very recently began running ads adjacent to articles.it has been beefing up its sales force.
It now offers 30 regional editions, it very recently began running ads adjacent to articles, and it has been beefing up its sales force.it just launched a promotional campaign to tell chief executives, marketing directors, and media executives just that.
However WCRS's chief executive, Peter Scott, met in Paris with another French firm, Boulet Dru Dupuy Petit, or BDDP.negotiations bogged down recently.
According to the executive, BDDP's involvement prompted renewed vigor in the WCRS-Eurocom talks.the two agencies were hoping to hammer out details by today.
The issue exploded this year.a Federal Bureau of Investigation operation led to charges of widespread trading abuses at the Chicago Board of Trade and Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Traders are likely to oppose such restrictions.dual trading provides a way to make money in slower markets where there is a shortage of customer orders.
that dual trading improves liquidity in the markets.traders can buy or sell even when they don't have a customer order in hand.
because traders can buy or sell.they don't have a customer order in hand.
The agency didn't cite specific situations where dual trading might be allowed.smaller exchanges or contracts that need additional liquidity are expected to be among them.
the study to be released within two weeks.the rule changes to be completed by Thanksgiving.
Under the rules, traders decide whether they will trade for their own account or for customers.a session begins.
It's too soon to tell.people don't seem to be unhappy with it.
he wouldn't comment on the CFTC plan.the exchange has seen the full proposal.
he wouldn't comment on the CFTC plan until the exchange has seen the full proposal.at a meeting last week, Tom Donovan, the Board of Trade's president, told commodity lawyers: "Dual trading is definitely worth saving..It adds something to the market.
JAPANESE luxury-car makers are trying to set strict design standards for their dealerships.some dealers are negotiating looser terms, while others decline to deal at all.
Nissan Motor Co. 's Infiniti division likes to insist that every dealer construct and furnish a building in a Japanese style.Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus division provides specifications.
Toyota Motor Corp. 's Lexus division also provides specifications.only two-thirds of Lexus dealers are constructing new buildings according to the Lexus specs.
Some are even coming up with their own novel designs.In Louisville, Ky David Peterson has built a Lexus dealership with the showroom on the second floor.
But only two-thirds of Lexus dealers are constructing new buildings according to the Lexus specs..Some are even coming up with their own novel designs.some dealers have turned down Infiniti or Lexus franchises because they were unwilling or unable to meet the design requirements.
Yet some dealers have turned down Infiniti or Lexus franchises.they were unwilling or unable to meet the design requirements.
he turned down a Lexus franchise.the building was gorgeous but very expensive.
Blocked by patent protection from following suit.By 1982 the patent status of the Lanier microcassette had changed, permitting Dictaphone to develop its own competitive micro system.
permitting Dictaphone to develop its own competitive micro system.Marketing and sales departments urged abandonment of the pico project.
Marketing and sales departments then urged abandonment of the pico project.others said pico should proceed.
and introduced the pico in 1985.it hasn't sold well.
but it hasn't sold well.the device has been successful in other ways.
It helped Dictaphone attract better engineers.it provided new technology for other company products.
It helped Dictaphone attract better engineers, and it provided new technology for other company products.The picocassette recorder helped transform the company's reputation from follower to leading-edge innovator.
ONE DAY Carl Barrett of Mobile, Ala., was raking some sycamore leaves.the rake kept riding up over the piles.
The harder he tried to push them into large piles, the closer he came to breaking the rake and straining his back.Mr. Barrett, then vice president of the Alabama Steamship Association, took a steel-toothed garden rake and taped it to the underside of a leaf rake about nine inches up.
His crude device worked: The lower teeth gathered the leaves into a pile, while the higher, harder teeth moved the top of the pile.Now incorporated into a polypropylene rake, the four-inch prongs, or "wonderbars are supposed to aid in picking up leaves.
One customer, Donald Blaggs of Mobile, says the Barrett Rake allowed him to do his lawn in 2 1/2 hours, two hours less than usual.other rake makers have their doubts.
the Barrett rake "makes sense.it would be "tough" to explain to consumers.
They either pick it up.they start pulling from a fresh direction.
In 1941, Raeder and the German navy threatened to attack the Panama Canal.we created the Southern Command in Panama.
The Southern Command has grown even bigger since the war.Raeder's ghost sometimes runs through the E ring dressed like Gen. Noriega.
The brigade hasn't been heard from since.we keep the staff around just in case.
The Army headquarters on the third deck of the Pentagon used to burn a lot of incense to him.the Navy headquarters on the fourth deck made them stop it.
he wanted to make them part of the Army.Secretary of the Navy James Forrestal blocked him.
Now his ghost won't let up.it's done.
To keep him quiet we invent a new unified command every year or so run by the Army or the Air Force and put more of the Navy and Marines under it.we still hear him moaning at night.
But we still hear him moaning at night.the Navy has a few ships left.
But we still hear him moaning at night because the Navy has a few ships left.to satisfy him the Navy's sea lift forces were given to a new Air Force bureaucracy in Illinois, its space operations to another command in Colorado, the frogmen to a new Army bureaucracy in Fort Bragg, and the Navy's Indian Ocean and Persian Gulf forces to an Army bureaucracy in Florida.
President Carter was so scared that the shah's ghost would blame him for shoving him out to make way for the ayatollah that he declared the Carter Doctrine.the shah died.
Mr. Carter said he would go to war to stop anyone from trying to grab Iran.that ghost wouldn't settle for words, he wanted money and people -- lots.
he wanted money and people -- lots.Mr. Carter formed three new Army divisions.
So Mr. Carter formed three new Army divisions and gave them to a new bureaucracy in Tampa called the Rapid Deployment Force.that ghost wasn't fooled.
the RDF was neither rapid nor deployable nor a force.it cost $8 billion or $10 billion a year.
the shah's ghost claimed the credit.Mr. Carter was defeated in 1980.
the shah's ghost claimed the credit.and went after President Reagan and Cap Weinberger.
and choke him.he coughed up an additional $2 billion or so.
he added a thousand bureaucrats to the RDF in Tampa and renamed it Central Command.they let him go.
They had fun moving the carriers around.it turned out that they had forgotten all about mine sweepers.
he added a thousand bureaucrats to the RDF in Tampa and renamed it Central Command..He gave those bureaucrats charge of all naval operations in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean.the shah still kept leaping out at Cap.
But the shah still kept leaping out at Cap.Cap bought a hundred merchant ships more and $7 billion of loading barges, ramps, etc.
so Cap bought a hundred merchant ships more and $7 billion of loading barges, ramps, etc.suddenly Ike's ghost came to visit and said, "What the hell are you doing planning for a land war in Asia 12,000 miles away?.We'd get our asses kicked.
while the shah -- he kept coming back.the U.S. found itself paying about $2 billion in baksheesh to various Arab potentates for basing rights around the Indian Ocean.
We had great success in Somalia.that the base he promised us in Berbera had silted up about a hundred years ago and anyway was 1,244 miles from the mouth of the Gulf.
that President Siad Barrah was not at all a nice person.that the base he promised us in Berbera had silted up about a hundred years ago.
and anyway was 1,244 miles from the mouth of the Gulf.who's counting.
that the base he promised us in Berbera had silted up about a hundred years ago and anyway was 1,244 miles from the mouth of the Gulf.Berbera was the best we could get.
Still, Berbera was the best we could get.we stay in bed with President Barrah.
But that ghost wouldn't settle for words, he wanted money and people -- lots.wouldn't you know, now that we are spending jillions of dollars, and have built those new divisions and new air wings, and have positioned all these ships and supplies to fight the Russians in Iran, the Russians seem to have lost interest in the whole subject.
the Russians seem to have lost interest in the whole subject.we are spending jillions of dollars, and have built those new divisions and new air wings, and have positioned all these ships and supplies to fight the Russians in Iran.
But wouldn't you know, now that we are spending jillions of dollars, and have built those new divisions and new air wings, and have positioned all these ships and supplies to fight the Russians in Iran, the Russians seem to have lost interest in the whole subject.Congress is cutting huge chunks out of the rest of the defense budget.
But wouldn't you know, now that we are spending jillions of dollars, and have built those new divisions and new air wings, and have positioned all these ships and supplies to fight the Russians in Iran, the Russians seem to have lost interest in the whole subject.Congress is cutting huge chunks out of the rest of the defense budget.
Do we still need to keep all 18 Army divisions on active duty and all those extra land-based aircraft without bases and all those Army guys playing admiral in Tampa?.Couldn't we save $20 billion or $30 billion a year by shifting that stuff to the reserves.why not save the costs of a thousand bureaucrats by abolishing Central Command and putting responsibility for Gulf naval operations back where it belongs, afloat with the task force commander in the Gulf.
Do we still need to keep all 18 Army divisions on active duty and all those extra land-based aircraft without bases and all those Army guys playing admiral in Tampa?.Couldn't we save $20 billion or $30 billion a year by shifting that stuff to the reserves?.And why not save the costs of a thousand bureaucrats by abolishing Central Command and putting responsibility for Gulf naval operations back where it belongs, afloat with the task force commander in the Gulf.where were all our handsomely paid Indian Ocean allies last year when our convoys were being attacked.
He wouldn't leave.Mr. Cheney promised to do whatever the Pentagon systems analysts told him.
until Mr. Cheney promised to do whatever the Pentagon systems analysts told him.next day Mr. Cheney went out and did just that.
He canceled the 600-ship Navy and cut back one carrier and 20 frigates.he canceled production of the Navy's most important carrier aircraft, the F-14 and the A-6.
He canceled the 600-ship Navy and cut back one carrier and 20 frigates..Then he canceled production of the Navy's most important carrier aircraft, the F-14 and the A-6.Mr. Cheney retained all those new land forces.
Marshall's ghost is satisfied for now.he'll be back.
that they can hold off the ghosts only a little while longer.the whole thing will start to collapse and the ghosts and banshees will be howling through the place.
Then the whole thing will start to collapse.the ghosts and banshees will be howling through the place turning people's hair white.
For one thing, there is an old master on the wall -- "Samuel Anointing David," a big baroque canvas painted by Mattia Preti, a 17th-century Neapolitan.At the moment the painting is a nagging reminder of the problems that have engulfed CenTrust and its flamboyant chairman and chief executive, David L. Paul.
that the $28 million was plucked from the funds of this federally insured institution.CenTrust was losing money hand over fist.
it has no current intention to do that.the agency could remove Mr. Paul.
It's not like selling Chevrolets," Mr. Paul says.he takes a drag on a goldbanded St. Moritz cigarette.
the high-yield debt market has plummeted.Mr. Paul has pared a $1.35 billion junk-bond portfolio to less than $900 million since April.
Divesting itself of what is left may well prove difficult.CenTrust has other problems.
Mr. Paul has a plan to bring in $150 million by selling off 63 of CenTrust's 71 branches.it has yet to be approved by regulators.
Embittered shareholders say the chairman and his collection epitomize the excesses of speculation that set off the national S&L crisis.Gallery directors say Mr. Paul and others of his ilk have left an indelible mark on the art world -- and not for the better.
Embittered shareholders say the chairman and his collection epitomize the excesses of speculation that set off the national S&L crisis.Gallery directors say Mr. Paul and others of his ilk have left an indelible mark on the art world -- and not for the better.
Johnny Payson got $53 million for his.certainly $10 million isn't too much for mine.
The great collectors we depended on, such as Paul Mellon or Norton Simon, have stopped buying.the new buyers are brilliant men who made money in the stock market or in takeovers and rushed into collecting.
Mr. Bond has yet to pay up.until he does, Sotheby's has the painting under lock and key.
and Sotheby's has the painting under lock and key.he does.
he let it be known that virtually no piece was too costly to be considered by CenTrust.Mr. Paul moved in on the art market.
There, on one of his first shopping trips, Mr. Paul picked up several paintings at stunning prices.He paid $2.2 million for a still life by Jan Jansz. den Uyl that was expected to fetch perhaps $700,000.
There, on one of his first shopping trips, Mr. Paul picked up several paintings at stunning prices.to have phoned Mr. Guterman, the New York developer selling the collection, and gloated.
He says he `stole them.he tells me, `If you want to see your paintings, you'll have to come to my house in Florida.
Mr. Paul quickly became more aggressive in his collecting, with the help of George Wachter, a Sotheby's expert in old masters.according to one dealer, Mr. Wachter had a penchant for introducing Mr. Paul with the phrase: "He can buy anything.
People were interested in seeing him.it was recognized that the route was through Sotheby's and particularly George Wachter.
Mr. Paul "was known to spend a lot of money..People were interested in seeing him, but it was recognized that the route was through Sotheby's and particularly George Wachter.Mr. Paul developed a close, symbiotic relationship with Sotheby's.
to stir up interest in old masters.it strove to build its U.S. business.
that he doesn't stop at paint on canvas.but spends big on art you can eat.
He recently bid $30,000 at a Paris charity auction for a dinner cooked by six of the world's great chefs.the final party cost closer to $100,000.
that the S&L could be so profligate.it had reported losses of more than $13 million in its two preceding quarters.
that the "book value of the collection {be} reduced to zero.Get rid of all the pictures.
that at one point he did indeed have eight or nine of the paintings at home.that the rest were in storage at Sotheby's.
that he was "merely storing the paintings at home -- with some display -- because of the special dehumidified environment" required for their safekeeping.CenTrust's new building was ready for them.
He explains that he was "merely storing the paintings at home -- with some display -- because of the special dehumidified environment" required for their safekeeping, until CenTrust's new building was ready for them.the incident was embarrassing.
that Mr. Paul has benefited handsomely from his association with CenTrust.he got a $3 million loan from the S&L, negotiated at a below-market rate.
that he paid much too much for several pieces in the CenTrust collection.The $12 million lavished on the Rubens was a record price for the artist and maybe twice its value, given a dispute among scholars about its provenance.
scholars question the authenticity of the Rubens.It may have been painted by a Rubens associate.
that Mr. Paul paid very dearly for the Rubens.that getting rid of it any time soon for a similar sum would be quite a feat.
It's not beyond credibility the Rubens will someday be worth $12 million.whether it could be sold for that amount tomorrow remains to be seen.
that getting rid of it any time soon for a similar sum would be quite a feat.predicting is tricky.
Art prices are skyrocketing.a good deal of legerdemain is involved in compiling statistics on sales.
Salomon Brothers Inc., the investment-banking firm, in its annual tally of investment returns, reported that old masters appreciated 51% in the year ended June 1, the greatest return of any of 13 assets it tracked.Salomon gets its data on art appreciation from Sotheby's, whose prices go up with clients like Mr. Paul in its thrall.
Art indexes track winners, not losers.art that has fallen sharply in value is rarely put up for sale.
But art that has fallen sharply in value is rarely put up for sale.at any of Sotheby's auctions of old masters, roughly one-third to one-fifth of what is offered doesn't sell at any price.
It's not that there aren't any bids.the bids don't meet the minimum "reserve" prices set by the sellers.
In January, the Preti painting that now hangs at CenTrust was expected to bring no more than $700,000 at auction.Mr. Paul came along with his $1.15 million.
$1.15 million "would have been an impossible price for anyone to ask for a Preti four years ago.it isn't that Mr. Paul, a customer of his too, overpaid for the work, "a gargantuan painting by an artist who is not a household word.
that Mr. Paul, a customer of his too, overpaid for the work, "a gargantuan painting by an artist who is not a household word.It just shows things have changed.
that he spotted bargains in old masters.they took an upward turn.
They went up 51% last year.they'll do it again this year.
the auction house has been "assisting" Mr. Paul in selling the paintings.a number of {the artworks} have already been sold, and at a substantial profit.
That isn't 51%.the claim isn't documented.
that he spotted bargains in old masters just before they took an upward turn.that he relied too heavily on Sotheby's or Mr. Wachter.
he had not one but four advisers.that he never bid impulsively.
he expects to sell the collection -- including the controversial Rubens -- "carefully and prudently.in art-world parlance, Mr. Paul's holdings are "burnt.
That is, he is being compelled to put them on the market too soon.quick turnover in artwork is "like pawning your jewelry -- you end up with 50%.
On occasion, he paid a high price.those who bid less and dropped out were dealers who would then have marked up the paintings to resell them at a profit to collectors.
who bid less and dropped out.who would have marked up the paintings to resell them at a profit to collectors.
to both advise a client on purchases.to set price estimates on the paintings to be purchased.
Frequently, clients express interest in paintings but don't end up bidding.we don't know who the potential buyer will be.
that he has feelers out over much of the globe.that potential buyers from as far away as Japan and Italy have examined the collection.
Because of the pressure on CenTrust to sell, dealers and collectors have been trying to get the paintings at bargain-basement prices.so far, Mr. Paul and his advisers are holding fast.
I tried to steal the picture.{Sotheby's} wouldn't do it.
Because of the pressure on CenTrust to sell, dealers and collectors have been trying to get the paintings at bargain-basement prices..But so far, Mr. Paul and his advisers are holding fast.Mr. Paul and CenTrust executives are getting squeamish about opulence.
Because of the pressure on CenTrust to sell, dealers and collectors have been trying to get the paintings at bargain-basement prices..But so far, Mr. Paul and his advisers are holding fast.Mr. Paul and CenTrust executives are getting squeamish about opulence.
I don't think I have a life style that is, frankly, so flamboyant," he says.at just that moment, he is interrupted in his office by a servant in tuxedo who pours coffee from silver into a cup of china and dabs the brim with linen.
The offices are done in hardwood and oriental rugs, leatherbound books and, of course, a $12 million Rubens.he implores that the splendor be played down.
Don't say it's a gold ceiling.the regulators will take it for decadence.
Otherwise, the regulators will take it for decadence.nowadays everything's got to be pristine.
The percent difference compares actual profit with the 30-day estimate where at least three analysts have issues forecasts in the past 30 days.actual profit is compared with the 300-day estimate.
provoking conflict-of-interest criticism.they were writing rules while handling clients' books at the same time.
The new board's seven-member structure kept four CPAs.the others were from industry and academia.
In the late 1960s some CPAs failed to correct such abuses as clients picking permissive rules that hyped earnings and stock prices.in November 1970 Congress had passed a special act to overrule one board rule.
And in November 1970 Congress had passed a special act to overrule one board rule.James Needham, an SEC commissioner, in April 1972 had warned that the industry might face a "federal agency writing accounting rules" if they rejected the FASB idea.
The FASB since then has issued 102 rules.some still rile industry.
Amcast Industrial Corp. said it plans to repurchase 500,000 shares, or about 7% of its shares outstanding, in open market transactions.Amcast had said it planned to repurchase shares, but didn't disclose when or how many shares it intended to buy back.
Total value of the contract could be $100 million.work on the project would be about evenly divided.
The No. 1 domestic aluminum producer, Aluminum Co. of America, Friday said its earnings fell 3.2% to $219 million, or $2.46 a share.Alcan Aluminium Ltd. yesterday reported net income slid 30% to $180 million, or 77 cents a share, from $258 million, or $1.07 a share.
Much of the price decline has been blamed on a slowing economy.the third quarter is typically the industry's slowest period.
Much of the price decline has been blamed on a slowing economy and the third quarter is typically the industry's slowest period.the ingot price "appears to have bottomed out.
shipments are continuing at a "healthy" pace.the company has no excess inventory.
the ingot price "appears to have bottomed out." He said shipments are continuing at a "healthy" pace and the company has no excess inventory.that in the latest quarter there were increased material and labor costs, including a new employee profit-sharing plan.
Yesterday's 88-point recovery from Friday's megadrop in the Dow Jones industrials had many brokerage houses proclaiming that stocks are a good bargain again.quite a few money managers aren't buying it.
he bought "a narrow list of stocks" yesterday.sitting with 20% of his fund in cash before Friday's sell-off.
This is not a grossly overvalued market.it's not cheap either.
that there will be "mild economic growth, modest profit expansion.things are going to be hunky-dory.
I've been two-thirds in cash since July.I continue to think that having a defensive position is appropriate.
Generalizations about value aren't useful.International Business Machines and Unisys might look cheap, but investors might continue to do better with stocks like Walt Disney, Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola, strong performers in recent years.
For instance International Business Machines and Unisys might look cheap.investors might continue to do better with stocks like Walt Disney, Procter & Gamble and Coca-Cola, strong performers in recent years.
stocks would have to fall 15% to 20%.they are competitive with less risky investment alternatives.
But quite a few money managers aren't buying it.There are bulls out there.
There are still bulls out there.Many brokerage house officials are optimistic.
Friday's sell-off was a good thing.it deflated a lot of crazy takeover speculation.
Friday's big fall was "just a blunder by the stock market.Many investors have nagging worries.
Investors aren't going to be throwing money at any of the proposed LBOs.doing deals on the basis of ridiculous assumptions never made sense, either.
Earlier this year, bankers and other investors were willing to provide financing.they assumed there would be major gains in both profitability and sales.
Competition from third parties who have cash and are prepared to buy has always existed and will continue.when prices were crazy, it was even harder to do an LBO.
But it was even harder to do an LBO.prices were crazy.
Having to take on less debt would certainly be an advantage.It would help us in our search for equity partners.
Not only could the Wall Street gyrations damp Christmas sales if consumers lose confidence in the economy.potential junk-bond buyers are sure to demand even stronger covenants and greater management equity participation.
Further, many institutions today holding troubled retailers' debt securities will be reticent to consider additional retailing investments.the lower prices these retail chains are now expected to bring should make it easier for managers to raise the necessary capital and pay back the resulting debt.
However, the lower prices these retail chains are now expected to bring should make it easier for managers to raise the necessary capital and pay back the resulting debt.the fall selling season has generally been a good one, especially for those retailers dependent on apparel sales for the majority of their revenues.
What's encouraging about this is that retail chains will be sold on the basis of their sales and earnings, not liquidation values.that all the proposed retailing LBOs will depend partly on the sale of junk bonds, a market already in tumult, in part because of concerns associated with bonds issued by the Federated and Allied units of Campeau.
Prices for retail chains are lower today than they were last week, which will help management.the hurdle of financing still has to be resolved.
Justin's attorney, Charles E. Baxley, said Justin would ask an appeals court to set aside the order temporarily, pending an expedited appeal.He repeated Justin's denial of Sony's charges.
which were made with producers.gas prices were high and supplies short.
A majority of old contracts were renegotiated by the deadline and settled at steep discounts.they still face $2.4 billion in liabilities from unresolved disputes, including $1 billion they fear they won't be able to pass on to customers.
According to industry lawyers, the ruling gives pipeline companies an important second chance to resolve remaining disputes and take advantage of the cost-sharing mechanism.whether FERC could reimpose a new deadline.
The court ordered FERC to justify within 60 days not only its cost-sharing deadline, but other major elements of its proposed regulation for introducing more competition into natural-gas transportation.The court questioned a crediting mechanism that could be used to resolve take-or-pay liabilities.
Expo enthusiasts argue that holding the fair would attract businesses, create jobs and help renovate abandoned sections of town.opponents fear overcrowding.
This city already has too many tourists.it can't hold them all.
What do we want casinos for.we haven't got anything in the shops.
Not all Poles are pleased.Bogdan Gumkowski said the ventures would help Poland service its $39 billion foreign debt by pouring dollars into the state firms in the joint ventures -- the LOT airline and Orbis tourist organization.
According to the Middle East Economic Survey, the North African nation is holding talks with Italy for adding a fourth pipe to a section of the Trans-Mediterranean pipeline.Algeria wants to build a pipeline through Morocco and across the Strait of Gibraltar to supply Spain, France and West Germany with up to 15 billion cubic meters a year by the late 1990s.
South Africa's National Union of Mineworkers agreed to suspend the strike by diamond workers and resume negotiations with De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. over their wage dispute.the union had agreed to meet the company for further talks tomorrow.
Bonn is convinced of the need for cooperation, "especially with our neighbors in the East.we are directly affected by their ecological progress or lack of it.
The Swedish publishers of a new Estonian-language newspaper rushed an extra edition across the Baltic on Oct. 10.the first run sold out in one day.
The Swedish publishing company Bonniers owns 51% of Are Paev.the Estonian management company Minor owns 49%.
Korean car exports have slid about 40% so far this year.auto makers here aren't panicking.
They are enjoying domestic sales that are more than making up for lost overseas sales.some auto executives suggest that slackened demand for their cars in the U.S. and Canada is a blessing.
that slackened demand for their cars in the U.S. and Canada is a blessing.they wouldn't be able to keep up with demand in the more profitable local market.
It's an optimistic move in a industry already facing world-wide overcapacity.South Korean auto makers are confident that the export market will bounce back and that demand in Korea will stay strong.
that the export market will bounce back.that demand in Korea will stay strong.
The company plans to expand plant capacity 50% by 1991.it also hopes to begin producing a passenger car based on the Volvo 240 and selling for about $20,000.
The company plans to expand plant capacity 50% by 1991.By then it hopes to begin producing a passenger car based on the Volvo 240 and selling for about $20,000.
Hyundai and Daewoo seem unconcerned about the SsangYong threat.Kia, the scrappy No.3 auto maker, is selling four-wheel-drive vehicles through its Asia unit.
Shipments of its Lemans to GM's Pontiac division are off about 65% from a year ago, versus a 44% decline for Hyundai and an 18% increase for Kia.Daewoo's domestic sales have grown half as fast as sales of its rivals.
The big problem for Daewoo is the long series of labor disruptions it suffered this year.Daewoo is expanding too.
In fact, a sister company, Daewoo Shipbuilding and Heavy Machinery, plans to build 240,000 minicars by the mid-1990s.Hyundai, the Korean market leader with a 58% share plans to jump into minicars at the same time.
Hyundai, the Korean market leader with a 58% share, also plans to jump into minicars at the same time..It has a similar project for 200,000 cars a year.Kia is reportedly considering such a plan.
withdrawals of money from stock funds amounted to a mere trickle compared with Black Monday.the stock market bounced back.
Other mutual fund companies reported even lighter withdrawal requests.some investors at Fidelity and elsewhere even began buying stock funds during the day.
Of course, the relative calm could be jolted if the market plunges again.any strong surge in redemptions could force some funds to dump stocks to raise cash.
And any strong surge in redemptions could force some funds to dump stocks to raise cash.funds generally are better prepared this time around.
Vanguard Group Inc. saw heavy exchanges from stock funds into money market funds.the telephone lines opened at 8:30 a.m.
In the first hour, the real nervous folks came along.the horrendous pace of call volume in the first half-hour slowed considerably.
in fact, some investors changed course and reversed their sell orders.stocks rose.
Most of that increase came in the first hour after the phone lines opened at 8 a.m.As stocks rose some investors changed course and reversed their sell orders.
to void orders.the close of trading.
As stocks rose, in fact, some investors changed course and reversed their sell orders.At Scudder and at the smaller Ivy funds group in Hingham, Mass. some shareholders called early in the morning to switch money from stock funds to money market funds, but later called back to reverse the switches.
At Scudder and at the smaller Ivy funds group in Hingham, Mass., for instance, some shareholders called early in the morning to switch money from stock funds to money market funds.but called back to reverse the switches.
these shareholders effectively stayed put.mutual fund trades don't take effect until the market close -- in this case, at 4 p.m.
and placed an order to switch his retirement accounts out of three stock funds and into a money market fund.by 3:15 p.m., with the market comfortably ahead for the day, Mr. Sherman was preparing to undo his switch.
but later called back to reverse the switches.some investors continued to switch out of high-risk, high-yield junk funds despite yesterday's rebound from that market's recent price declines.
Shareholders have been steadily bailing out of several big junk funds the past several weeks.the $200 billion market was jolted by a cash crunch at Campeau Corp. and steadily declining prices.
Much of the money has been switched into money market funds.Instead of selling bonds to meet redemptions some funds have borrowed from banks to meet withdrawal requests.
the firm sold the bonds and quickly paid the loans back.the market stabilized.
and quickly became eye openers for their makers.the new lens became the eye of a storm.
In September 1971 California officials seized "bootlegged" lenses.some showed traces of bacteria.
In October doctors were debating the product's safety, some claiming it caused infections.there were Senate hearings on the questions in July 1972.
Johnson & Johnson, with its new disposables, is coming on fast.Bausch remains the leader among the six majors.
In the wake of Friday's plunge and yesterday's rebound, some companies are already postponing deals.others wish they could.
As in other jittery times, many small businesses expect a particularly rough time raising funds.investors shun risky deals.
At the time, its shares were selling above their initial offering price of $19.bankers believed Staples would sell new stock without a hitch.
At the time, its shares were selling above their initial offering price of $19, and bankers believed Staples would sell new stock without a hitch.with the company's shares standing at $15 yesterday, a new offering seems unlikely.
Business, however, continues to be "robust.the stock market hasn't affected the concern's expansion plans.
We have capital requirements.we have to go ahead" with a planned $1.5 billion private placement.
it may take us six to nine months to find the money, instead of three.the market goes right back up.
Unless the market goes right back up it may take us six to nine months to find the money, instead of three.the Columbia, Md., company may have to settle for a lower price.
Robertson Stephens slashed the value of the offering by 7%.the market dropped Friday.
For many, the situation is especially discouraging.the market for IPOs was showing signs of strengthening after several years of weakness.
seeing the light at the end of the tunnel.the tunnel's just gotten longer.
Exabyte Corp. had been planning to sell 10% of its stock this week in an IPO that would raise up to $28.5 million.now We're making decisions on a day-to-day basis.
Many companies are hesitating.it is planning to go ahead with its IPO this week or next -- unless conditions change.
it is still planning to go ahead with its IPO this week or next.conditions change.
Many companies are hesitating.Delayed financings would affect the operations of many companies.
Many companies are hesitating.he thinks the IPO will succeed.
Delayed financings also would affect the operations of many companies.the market turmoil could be partially beneficial for some small businesses.
In a sagging market, the Federal Reserve System "might flood the market with funds.that should bring interest rates down.
many high-technology concerns have made such alliances recently.the 1987 market crash made it harder for them to find financing.
panicky investors may lose their enthusiasm for leveraged buy-out and giant takeover deals.they could turn to investing in smaller deals involving smaller companies.
market uncertainty may encourage small companies to form more strategic alliances with big corporations.the market's gyrations will underline the investors' lack of control in big stock investments.
Bay Financial Corp., hurt by high debts and deteriorating real estate investments, reported a wider loss for the fourth quarter.it might be forced to seek a bankruptcy-court reorganization if it can't renegotiate its borrowings.
it might be forced to seek a bankruptcy-court reorganization.it can't renegotiate its borrowings.
a "substantial part" of its debt outstanding is in default as a result of inability to sell certain properties quickly and lower-than-expected prices for sales made.it is coming up short on a big bet that quick sales at higher prices would enable it to keep up with mortgage and other debt payments.
the fair-market value of its holdings, minus debt, was equal to $6.02 a share at June 30 based on a recent appraisal.it is having serious cash-flow problems.
A year earlier, fair-market value per share was $26.02.book value was $9.43 a share.
TRW Inc. reported a 12% decline in third-quarter net income.that excluding unusual gains in both quarters, operating profit rose 16%.
The latest quarter included a gain of 11 cents a share as a partial reversal of the recall charge.the reserve established last year exceeded the actual recall costs.
aerospace and defense sales were up 2% for the quarter to $802 million.operating profit climbed 6% to $61 million, mainly because of improved program performance in spacecraft and advanced-technology contracts.
The group had an operating profit of $65 million, against a loss of $13 million a year earlier.excluding the year-earlier charge for recall of steering gear, operating profit in the latest quarter declined 14%.
a tragicomic monologue by an idealistic, not unheroic, though sadly self-deceived English butler in his sixties -- proceeds.the realistic English novel of manners, like Britannia herself, still ruled the waves.
we see how pious cant subverts the soul.the narrator Stevens, the solitary butler of Darlington Hall, mulls over such hallowed terms as "greatness," "dignity," "service" and "loyalty.
Stevens surveys the view.he stands on a hill at the beginning of a six-day motor expedition from Oxfordshire to Cornwall.
Stevens surveys the view.and provides a self-portrait, a credo and the author's metaphor for the aesthetic of the novel we're reading.
We call this land of ours Great Britain.there may be those who believe this a somewhat immodest practice.
and there may be those who believe this a somewhat immodest practice.I would venture that the landscape of our country alone would justify the use of this lofty adjective.
An effusive landscape?.An ill-mannered mountain?.let Stevens continue in his unwitting comic manner.
Continentals are unable to be butlers.they are as a breed incapable of the emotional restraint which only the English race are capable of.
Despite his racial advantage, to be a great butler is a heroic calling.If in the midst of a great social occasion (such as an international conference on revising the Versailles Treaty in 1923), one's 72-yearold father, himself a great butler once, should happen to die of a stroke, one must continue to serve the port.
In the end Stevens sits by the seashore at dusk and declares "I trusted..I trusted in his lordship's wisdom. . . . I can't even say I made my own mistakes..Really -- one has to ask oneself -- what dignity is there in that?.meeting with the former housekeeper.
such rueful wisdom must be retrospective.such wisdom can be movingly embodied in art.
First GPA Group Ltd., the international aircraft leasing company based in Ireland, could lease some of its Boeing jetliners to the Soviet airline.Aer Lingus, the Irish flag carrier, could teach Aeroflot pilots to fly the Boeings, and the fleet could be based here at Shannon Airport.
Then Aer Lingus, the Irish flag carrier, could teach Aeroflot pilots to fly the Boeings.the fleet could be based here at Shannon Airport.
Aer Rianta, the Irish airport authority, could build a cargo terminal in the Soviet Union..Aeroflot could lease some of its cargo planes to Aer Lingus, through GPA, for a joint-venture cargo airline.then there is his notion of an Irish-Soviet charter airline to ferry Armenians to Los Angeles via Shannon.
Aer Rianta, the Irish airport authority, could build a cargo terminal in the Soviet Union..Aeroflot could lease some of its cargo planes to Aer Lingus, through GPA, for a joint-venture cargo airline.And there is his notion of an Irish-Soviet charter airline to ferry Armenians to Los Angeles via Shannon.
The Irish-Soviet aviation connection is alive and well here at Shannon Airport.GPA is talking about leasing Western planes to Aeroflot and even about buying Soviet-built Tupolev 204s.
Unlikely as it may seem, tiny, politically neutral Ireland has penetrated the mighty Soviet airline bureaucracy.the Irish aviation industry seems poised to benefit.
And the Irish aviation industry seems poised to benefit.Aeroflot struggles to boost its service standards, upgrade its fleet and pursue commercial opportunities.
Irish and Soviet people are similar.Irish companies are small but spunky.
Aeroflot carried about 125 million passengers last year.Shannon Airport, the airline's largest transit airport outside the Soviet Union, saw 1,400 Aeroflot flights and 250,000 passengers pass through.
What Aeroflot doesn't pour into its own gas-guzzling Ilyushins is bartered to the airport authority, which resells it to 11 Western carriers including Air France, Trans World Airlines and Pakistan International Airlines.Aeroflot pays its landing fees, ground-handling and catering bills with fuel.
Duty-free shops in Leningrad's Pulkova Airport opened in July.hard-currency shops in Leningrad hotels and on the Soviet-Finnish frontier are coming soon.
Shannon was the first landfall in Europe for thirsty airplanes flying from North America.it opened in 1939.
Advances in aircraft fuel efficiency over the years made a Shannon stop unnecessary for most Western air fleets.Aeroflot still flies inefficient Ilyushins that can't make it from Moscow to Managua on one hop.
but Aeroflot still flies inefficient Ilyushins that can't make it from Moscow to Managua on one hop.Ireland didn't spurn the Soviets after they shot down a Korean Air Lines jetliner over the Sea of Japan in 1983, though it suspended direct Moscow-Shannon flights for two months.
As a result, Ireland didn't spurn the Soviets.they shot down a Korean Air Lines jetliner over the Sea of Japan in 1983.
As a result, Ireland didn't spurn the Soviets after they shot down a Korean Air Lines jetliner over the Sea of Japan in 1983.it suspended direct Moscow-Shannon flights for two months.
As a result, Ireland didn't spurn the Soviets after they shot down a Korean Air Lines jetliner over the Sea of Japan in 1983.Aer Lingus started ferrying Russians from Shannon to New York when Washington stripped Aeroflot of its U.S. landing rights.
In fact, Aer Lingus started ferrying Russians from Shannon to New York.Washington stripped Aeroflot of its U.S. landing rights.
Today, Aer Rianta is making a heap of money from its Soviet friendship.with those contacts in place, it could be relatively simple to add Aer Lingus and GPA to the team.
it will begin testing the competitive mettle of its giant competitors.Nucor Corp. begins shipping steel from the world's first thin-slab plant this month.
New, efficient and sophisticated processes make it easier for smaller, less cash-rich companies to make steel at a fraction of what Big Steel paid decades ago.It enables minimills finally to get a toehold in the flat-rolled steel market -- the major steelmakers' largest, most prized, and until now, untouchable, market.
New, efficient and sophisticated processes make it easier for smaller, less cash-rich companies to make steel at a fraction of what Big Steel paid decades ago..It also enables minimills finally to get a toehold in the flat-rolled steel market -- the major steelmakers' largest, most prized, and until now, untouchable, market.such thin-slab technology is only the beginning.
In fact, they've spent billions of dollars to boost the percentage of continously cast steel to 60.9% in 1988, from 39.6% five years before.their balance sheets are rich with diversity, their old plants shuttered, and work forces lean.
In fact, they've spent billions of dollars to boost the percentage of continously cast steel to 60.9% in 1988, from 39.6% five years before..Moreover, their balance sheets are rich with diversity, their old plants shuttered, and work forces lean.that won't suffice.
They're saddled with huge plants that require costly maintenance.try plying new dollars free in a market that is softening, hurt by a strong dollar and concerned about overcapacity -- the industry's Darth Vadar.
They've got too much invested in the old stuff.they can't get their workers to be flexible.
Nucor's plant in Crawfordsville, Ind., ultimately will produce only one million tons annually, a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket.it will be years before such plants can compete in the high-profit market.
and it will be years.such plants can compete in the high-profit market.
Nucor's plant in Crawfordsville, Ind., ultimately will produce only one million tons annually, a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket, and it will be years before such plants can compete in the high-profit market.flat-rolled is the steel industry's bread and butter, representing about half of the 80 million tons of steel expected to be shipped this year.
Nucor's plant in Crawfordsville, Ind., ultimately will produce only one million tons annually, a drop in the 40-million-ton-a-year flat-rolled steel bucket, and it will be years before such plants can compete in the high-profit market.the process isn't without its headaches.
one equipment failure forces a complete plant shutdown.all operations are connected.
At this point, the minimill capacity won't make a great dent in the integrated market.it does challenge them to develop new markets.
but it does challenge them to develop new markets.with demand for steel not growing fast enough to absorb capacity, steelmakers will have to change the way they do business.
Armco convinced a steel service center to build a processing plant nearby.they determined that GM needed parts more quickly.
to build a processing plant nearby.shipments could be delivered within 15 minutes.
Cementing such relationships with major clients -- car and appliance makers -- is a means of survival.those key clients are relying on a smaller pool of producers and flirting with plastic and aluminum makers.
Cementing such relationships with major clients -- car and appliance makers -- is a means of survival.when Detroit began talking about plastic-bodied cars, the American Iron and Steel Institute began a major lobbying effort to show auto makers how they could use steel more efficiently by simply redesigning how a car door is assembled.
For example the American Iron and Steel Institute began a major lobbying effort to show auto makers how they could use steel more efficiently by simply redesigning how a car door is assembled.Detroit began talking about plastic-bodied cars.
Cementing such relationships with major clients -- car and appliance makers -- is a means of survival.steelmakers must also find new markets.
Indeed steelmakers will have to change the way they do business.But steelmakers must find new markets.
a group of the nation's largest steelmakers started a recycling institute to promote steel cans to an environmentally conscious nation.letting aluminum-makers take the recycling lead.
steelmakers should concentrate more on construction.Weirton Steel Corp., Weirton, W. Va. is touting to homeowners fashionable steel doors, with leaded glass inserts, as a secure and energy-efficient alternative to wooden or aluminum ones.
Now we're figuring out what people need, and are going back to make it a group of the nation's largest steelmakers started a recycling institute to promote steel cans to an environmentally conscious nation Still others are looking at overseas markets.Producers are trying to differentiate by concentrating on higher-profit output, such as coated and electrogalvanized products.
Almost all capital-improvement programs announced by major steelmakers within the past year involve building electrogalvanizing lines.unfortunately, that segment is much smaller than the bread-and-butter flat-rolled steel.
he does see more plants being sold or closed.he doesn't expect any bankruptcies.
it's unlikely that consumption of U.S. produced steel will grow sufficiently to offset the growth of minimills.there is an enormous rate of economic growth or a further drop in the dollar.
Japanese and European steelmakers, which have led the recent technology developments, are anxiously awaiting the lifting of trade restraints in 1992.the U.S. can expect more competition from low-cost producing Pacific Rim and Latin American countries.
After 78 days of mind-numbing testimony in federal court in Boston, the trial is being all but ignored by analysts and patent attorneys.Most have read the pre-trial documents.
That may be the largest patent award ever.it is well below the $12 billion Polaroid seeks.
when Smith International Inc. was ordered to pay $205 million to Baker Hughes Inc. for infringing on a patent on an oil drilling bit seal.The two companies agreed to settle for $95 million.
You might find something.the chances are low.
Few analysts think it is worth their time to slog through the Polaroid trial testimony.Eugene Glazer, an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc., said: "If you hired an attorney to be there all the time and give you a (prediction) of the eventual award, I would be willing to bet that he would be off" by a lot.
that he would be off" by a lot.you hired an attorney to be there all the time and give you a (prediction) of the eventual award.
how to calculate damages.whether the infringement was "willful and deliberate.
Carr told Kodak on many occasions to avoid various features because of Polaroid's patent positions.Kodak followed his advice in every instance.
that "he worked with Kodak continuously from the outset of the project" in an effort to avoid infringement.the fact that seven patents were infringed "suggests that infringement was willful.
The main issues remaining are how to calculate damages and whether the infringement was "willful and deliberate.Observers wonder whether Judge Mazzone will use the lost-profits method of determining damages or the reasonable royalty method.
which Polaroid favors.it would result in a larger award.
Polaroid claims it could have manufactured and sold all the instant cameras and film sold by Kodak if Kodak hadn't entered the market.Polaroid contends it could have sold them at a higher price -- and thus made higher profits -- because it wouldn't have been forced to match Kodak's lower prices.
it could have sold them at a higher price.and made higher profits.
it could have sold them at a higher price.it wouldn't have been forced to match Kodak's lower prices.
Kodak hired Robert Buzzell.Polaroid brought in Robert J. Dolan.
The main reason was a delay in shipment of new high-end disk drives, a business that accounts for some 10% of IBM's $60 billion of annual revenue.IBM cited an increase in its leasing business.
an increase in its leasing business, which tends to lock in business long-term but cut revenue in the near term.that the stronger dollar has cut the value of overseas revenue and earnings when they are translated into dollars.
that the stronger dollar has cut the value of overseas revenue and earnings.they are translated into dollars.
Jay Stevens of Dean Witter actually cut his per-share earnings estimate to $9 from $9.50 for 1989 and to $9.50 from $10.35 in 1990.he decided sales would be even weaker than he had expected.
he kept a "buy/hold" recommendation on the stock.all the damage has been done.
The stock closed yesterday at $103 a share, up just $1 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.the market surged.
how soon does this disk-drive come.how soon does production ramp up.
A key part of the question is, how soon does this disk-drive come and how soon does production ramp up.the input I've had from customers is that it still could be a while.
IBM has priced its leases aggressively, thinking that would help win business.IBM would have won the business anyway as a sale to a third party that would have then leased the equipment to the customer.
IBM has not only hurt its short-term revenue outlook.but has been losing money on its leases.
when it announces some new versions of its mainframes.the basic technology in the line is almost five years old.
it is long in the tooth.competitors are rolling out strong products of their own.
IBM is gaining momentum in the personal-computer market, and is expected to introduce some impressive workstations early next year.it's hard to squeeze much profit out of the personal-computer business these days, and the workstation market, while important, is too small to rely on for much growth.
But it's hard to squeeze much profit out of the personal-computer business these days.the workstation market, while important, is too small to rely on for much growth.
and the workstation market is too small to rely on for much growth.important.
The disk drives will doubtless sell well.they finally become available.
a delay in shipment of new high-end disk drives, a business that accounts for some 10% of IBM's $60 billion of annual revenue.when they become available.
The disk drives will doubtless sell well when they finally become available.the AS/400, IBM's highly successful minicomputer line, is losing its momentum.
But the AS/400, IBM's highly successful minicomputer line, is losing its momentum.sales could even decline in the fourth quarter.
But the AS/400, IBM's highly successful minicomputer line, is losing its momentum, and some analysts said sales could even decline in the fourth quarter.IBM's growth in software in the third quarter was just 8.8%, well below historical levels even when adjusted to reflect last year's payment from Fujitsu and the stronger dollar.
In addition, IBM's growth in software in the third quarter was just 8.8%, well below historical levels.adjusted to reflect last year's payment from Fujitsu and the stronger dollar.
In addition, IBM's growth in software in the third quarter was just 8.8%, well below historical levels even when adjusted to reflect last year's payment from Fujitsu and the stronger dollar.expenses, up 7.9% in the quarter, have stayed stubbornly high.
analysts to raise their forecasts for 1989.the company releases its earnings today.
he is "more than comfortable with" analysts' estimates that third-quarter earnings rose to at least 98 cents to $1 a share from 91 cents the year earlier.he would be comfortable with that new range.
Mr. Calloway blamed the slower volume on rainier weather, a dearth of new products in the industry and -- to a much lesser extent -- pricing.Mr. Calloway noted that soft-drink volume rose a hefty 9% in last year's third quarter.
while Taco Bell's increased 22%.the chain continues to benefit from its price-value strategy.
he doesn't expect any major acquisition in the next year or so.You never can tell.
when the president was a young oil man in Midland.Mr. Allday was a lawyer for an oil firm.
it is tearing up the deal.the contract's objectives can't be fulfilled.
Nothing has happened to undermine our conviction that Hydro-Quebec was the lowest-cost, most environmentally acceptable choice for meeting a part of our customers' energy needs through the year 2020.we signed the contract.
Options traders were hurt worse than others on Friday because of the highly volatile nature of options, which often rise or fall in value several times the amount of the price change in the individual stock or index of stocks on which they are based.options traders Friday were stuck with losses that also were several times larger than those suffered by many stock traders in New York.
which often rise or fall in value several times the amount of the price change in the individual stock or index of stocks on which they are based.that were several times larger than those suffered by many stock traders in New York.
which were substantially above those in the market.it was falling.
Options traders were forced on Friday to buy those contracts back at the previously agreed prices, which were substantially above those in the market as it was falling.They had no choice in many cases but to sell the contracts at prevailing prices -- in most cases at a substantial loss.
Making matters worse was the fact that late Friday afternoon the CBOE halted stock-index options trading in step with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's halt in stock-index futures.while the Merc reopened a half hour later, the CBOE remained closed, leaving many options traders unable to make trades that might have reduced the losses.
Exchange officials reasoned that they wouldn't have been able to make such a rotation with the time remaining Friday afternoon.with the stock-index futures on the verge of closing for a second and final time, the CBOE reasoned that its best course was to remain closed.
The damage was so bad at Fossett Corp., an options trading firm here, that it was forced to transfer its accounts to First Options of Chicago, a unit of Continental Bank Corp., as a result of options trading losses.Fossett had several million dollars in capital left after Friday's close of trading, but not enough that regulators, worried about another potential market plunge yesterday, would let it reopen for trading.
Fossett still had several million dollars in capital left after Friday's close of trading, but not enough that regulators, worried about another potential market plunge yesterday, would let it reopen for trading.in an unprecedented arrangement underscoring the seriousness of the transfer, the CBOE, the American Stock Exchange and the Options Clearing Corp., as well as the firm's owner, Stephen Fossett, put up a total of $50 million to guarantee the customer positions being transferred to the bank holding company subsidiary in case the market plunged again yesterday.
that Continental Bank worked with securities and banking regulators over the weekend to fashion the Fossett bailout.that conditions weren't dictated by those agencies.
Mr. Stevens declined to give the specific contributions to the $50 million guarantee from each participant.CBOE and Amex officials said that Options Clearing Corp. contributed $20 million to the guarantee, the CBOE put up $8 million, the Amex added $4 million and $18 million came from Mr. Fossett's own assets.
that Options Clearing Corp. contributed $20 million to the guarantee, the CBOE put up $8 million, the Amex added $4 million.$18 million came from Mr. Fossett's own assets.
on-site massage, as it is known in the trade, is certainly infiltrating corporate America.such sessions may never replace coffee breaks.
Ms. Foster's indulgence is nothing like the oily, hour-long rubfests enjoyed by spa visitors.does it at all resemble the more intimate variety offered at specialty parlors in bad parts of town.
Nor does it at all resemble the more intimate variety offered at specialty parlors in bad parts of town.office rubdowns usually take place in dimly lighted conference rooms.
Massage advocates say that kneading the head, shoulders, neck and back can go a long way toward easing tension and improving morale.They insist that touching is a basic need, as powerful as the need for food or sleep, and that the office is as good a place as any to do it.
that touching is a basic need, as powerful as the need for food or sleep.that the office is as good a place as any to do it.
The blood flows to your head, you feel lightheaded.you don't feel tension around the head or neck.
people say you look like you're glowing.you leave the room after your massage.
Massage advocates say that kneading the head, shoulders, neck and back can go a long way toward easing tension and improving morale..They also insist that touching is a basic need, as powerful as the need for food or sleep, and that the office is as good a place as any to do it.Not everyone is at ease with office massage.
Three years ago, the Internal Revenue Service's office in San Jose, Calif., opened its doors to on-site massage.even though employees paid the bill, taxpayers grumbled.
And taxpayers grumbled.employees paid the bill.
Sometimes, with the release of stress, you hear `oohs' and `ahs' coming out of the room.you can't have taxpayers coming into an audit hearing `oohs' and `ahs.
Last month, the complaints intensified.the massages ended.
Not everyone, however, is at ease with office massage.Massage has an image problem to contend with.
by calling themselves "bodyworkers" and describing their office visits as "reinvigoration breaks.massage, no matter how chaste, is still associated in many minds with seedy fronts for prostitution.
But massage, no matter how chaste, is still associated in many minds with seedy fronts for prostitution.that makes some executives nervous.
Last year, the research and development division of Weyerhaeuser Co., the large wood-products concern, invited a masseuse to its Tacoma, Wash., offices.after about eight months, the vice president of the division, Ed Soule, learned about the sessions and brought them to a halt.
His massage chair is kept in a closet.a secretary escorts him past security.
who worked for American Telephone & Telegraph Co. for 23 years.choosing his current trade.
Elisa Byler, a St. Louis masseuse, won over officials at Emerson Electric Co., a maker of electrical and electronic equipment, by providing documents and other articles trumpeting the therapeutic benefits of massage.that she stresses professionalism during her weekly visits.
to keep the clothes on.to keep people seated.
It was a powerful point in my career.he pulled through, and after the ambulance left, there were still six people in line waiting for a massage.
But he pulled through.after the ambulance left, there were still six people in line waiting for a massage.
and there were still six people in line waiting for a massage.the ambulance left.
after the ambulance left.and there were six people in line waiting for a massage.
The next woman was older.I was afraid to touch her.
The next woman was older, and I was afraid to touch her.it's like falling off a horse and getting back on.
that it is only the tip of the iceberg.on-site massage is better than nothing.
The syndicate, led by Schroders Asia Ltd., agreed last November to provide the loan to Asia Development Corp., a U.S. property developer.several weeks ago, in the wake of the Beijing killings, the loan was canceled, according to bankers and executives close to the project.
Lenders had doubts about the project even before June 4.the harsh crackdown gave the banks the out they wanted.
it was hailed as one of the first Western-style financing transactions ever used in China.the loan agreement was announced.
Unlike most loans to China, there was no Chinese guarantor.the banks secured a promise from state-owned Bank of Communications that it would lend Asia Development the entire $55 million at maturity to finance repayment of the original borrowing.
The loan was to have matured in just two to three years.construction was completed.
The loan was to have matured in just two to three years, as soon as construction was completed.the loan was terminated.
the loan was terminated.the developer had failed to deliver adequate financial data and pay certain fees to the loan-management committee on time, according to officials close to the project.
Schroders said the loan was terminated because the developer had failed to deliver adequate financial data and pay certain fees to the loan-management committee on time, according to officials close to the project.Creditors involved in the project contend that the termination actually had nothing to do with these technical violations.
that the termination actually had nothing to do with these technical violations.the loan fell victim to nervousness about China's political turmoil, as well as to concern about the loan's security.
The bank syndicate is made up mostly of European banks.it includes China's state-owned Citic Industrial Bank.
The 11 banks in the syndicate sustained no monetary losses.none of the credit facility had been drawn down.
The proposed merger comes.K mart's profit is declining and sales at its core discount stores are rising more slowly than at such competitors as Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
as K mart's profit is declining.sales at its core discount stores are rising more slowly than at such competitors as Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
K mart tested the warehouse-club sector last year with its acquisition of a 51% interest in Makro Inc.the Makro chain has only six stores and annual sales that one analyst estimated at about $300 million.
The company had losses for several years.turning profitable in fiscal 1988.
In the year ended Jan. 31, Pace rang up profit of $9.4 million, or 72 cents a share, after a tax-loss carry-forward, on sales of $1.3 billion.analysts expect its results to continue to improve.
Warehouse productivity is really beginning to take off.some analysts contend K mart has agreed to pay too much for Pace.
K mart's number one job is to address its market-share loss {in discount stores}, which longer-term will lead to improved profit margins..At that point, perhaps diversification would be appropriate.K mart's Mr. Antonini is intent on pushing the company into new retail businesses.
But K mart's Mr. Antonini is intent on pushing the company into new retail businesses.K mart is opening big food and general merchandise stores, called hypermarkets, and warehouse-type stores specializing in office products and sporting goods.
For instance, K mart is opening big food and general merchandise stores and warehouse-type stores specializing in office products and sporting goods.It operates Waldenbooks, Pay Less Drug Stores and Builders Square home improvement stores.
Traders nervously watching their Quotron electronic-data machines yesterday morning were stunned to see the Dow Jones Industrial Average plummet 99 points in seconds.those who said "This can't be happening" were right The Quotrons were wrong.
The prices of the individual stocks that make up the average were correct.the average was wrong.
The Quotrons were wrong.there was an awful lot of confusion.
The Quotrons were wrong.there was an awful lot of confusion.
that she called brokers to tell them.she figured out the Quotron numbers were wrong.
the price was listed at $324.75 a share, up about $45 from Friday.UAL Corp. stock finally opened on the New York Stock Exchange at 11:08 a.m.
the price was listed at $324.75 a share, up about $45 from Friday.its true price was $224.75, down $55.
That was the New York Stock Exchange's blooper.there were other blunders.
a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average's drop as a 4% decline when it really was down 0.7%.the market opened at 9:30 a.m. EST.
a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average's drop as a 4% decline.it really was down 0.7%.
When the market opened at 9:30 a.m. EST, a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average's drop as a 4% decline when it really was down 0.7%.they sold dollars on the news and had to buy them back later at higher prices.
When the market opened at 9:30 a.m. EST, a reporter for the Reuters newswire miscalculated the industrial average's drop as a 4% decline when it really was down 0.7%.they sold dollars on the news and had to buy them back later at higher prices.
they sold dollars on the news.and had to buy them back at higher prices.
they sold dollars on the news and had to buy them back later at higher prices.it was the Quotron problems that had lingering effects.
that she was still viewing prices and other data as subject to verification.portfolio managers continued to question the numbers they saw on the screen.
Quotron switched to a backup system.the problems were corrected.
It turns out Mr. Friend's client, Machelle Parks of Cincinnati, didn't like the way defense attorney Tom Alexander acted during the legal proceedings.she has agreed to forgo monetary damages against Mr. Alexander's client in return for the right to punch the attorney.
to punch the attorney.Ms. Parks's mother gets to cuff Mr. Alexander.
Last month Mr. Alexander's associate agreed that Derr would pay $50,000 as part of an overall settlement.Mr. Alexander scuttled the deal at the last minute.
they volunteered that they would like to give Mr. Alexander a good walloping.Ms. Parks and her mother heard about what had happened.
he passed that along to his adversary.soon they were talking about the ground rules under which Derr could keep its money and the plaintiffs could take a shot at Mr. Alexander.
under which Derr could keep its money.the plaintiffs could take a shot at Mr. Alexander.
some details are in place.time and place have yet to be determined.
that Mr. Alexander will be asked to sign a release from liability, just in case.they don't contemplate delivering any disabling blows.
trading volume in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's huge Standard & Poor's 500 stock-index futures pit soared.financial markets rebounded.
to reap six-figure windfalls in a matter of minutes.prices soared.
that the S&P 500 market, with much of its customer order flow missing, would dry up.prices turned against them.
Traders were shouting bids and offers.the start of trading at 8:30 am.
The contract fell five points at the open to 323.85, the maximum opening move allowed under safeguards adopted by the Merc to stem a market slide.several traders quickly stepped up and bid for contracts, driving prices sharply higher.
Brokerage firms as a rule don't comment on their market activity.Unlike the week following Black Monday two years ago, individual traders in the S&P 500 pit were being uncharacteristically circumspect about their one-day profits.
The market for $200 billion of high-yield junk bonds regained some of its footing.the Dow Jones Industrial Average rebounded from Friday's plunge.
The market for $200 billion of high-yield junk bonds regained some of its footing as the Dow Jones Industrial Average rebounded from Friday's plunge.the junk recovery, led by the bellwether RJR Holdings bonds, was precarious.
On Friday, trading in practically every issue ground to a halt.potential buyers fled and brokerage firms were unwilling to provide bid and offer prices for most issues.
as potential buyers fled.brokerage firms were unwilling to provide bid and offer prices for most issues.
Nothing traded on Friday.people weren't really sure where the market should have opened" yesterday.
Nothing traded on Friday, and people weren't really sure where the market should have opened" yesterday.we had a fairly active day yesterday.
maybe there's a little bit of euphoria.before the stock market rebounded from a sharp early sell-off yesterday You couldn't buy {junk bonds} and you couldn't give them away.
But You couldn't buy {junk bonds} and you couldn't give them away.the stock market rebounded from a sharp early sell-off yesterday.
You couldn't buy {junk bonds.you couldn't give them away.
which initially tumbled three points, or $30 for each $1,000 face amount, to 96 1/4.rebounding to 99 3/4.
Yesterday's rally was led by RJR Holdings 13 3/4% bonds, which initially tumbled three points, or $30 for each $1,000 face amount, to 96 1/4 before rebounding to 99 3/4.Bonds issued by Kroger, Duracell, Safeway and American Standard showed big gains, recovering almost all their losses from Friday and early yesterday.
which initially tumbled three points, or $30 for each $1,000 face amount, to 96 1/4 before rebounding to 99 3/4..Bonds issued by Kroger, Duracell, Safeway and American Standard also showed big gains, recovering almost all their losses from Friday and early yesterday.the junk bond market increasingly is separating into a top-tier group, in which trades can be executed easily, and a larger group of lower-quality bonds in which liquidity -- or the ability to trade without too much difficulty -- has steadily deteriorated this year.
that are low in the early years after issuance.and rise.
It's possible to have a 10% default rate in one year.we're already seeing big problems in the midst of a pretty strong economy.
You could still have some very bad times ahead.yesterday's rally among "good" junk was a badly needed tonic for the market.
Many issues "bounced off the floor.benchmark junk issues "recovered all of their losses" from Friday and early yesterday.
Many issues "bounced off the floor and benchmark junk issues "recovered all of their losses" from Friday and early yesterday.The stock market gained back only about half what it lost Friday, and the {government} bond market lost about half what it gained Friday.
The stock market gained back only about half what it lost Friday.the {government} bond market lost about half what it gained Friday.
yesterday's rally was fueled by insurance companies looking for bargains after a drastic slide in prices the past month.mutual funds didn't appear to be major sellers of high-yield securities as was expected.
who faced rising doubt about his bid for American Airlines parent AMR Corp.a United Airlines buy-out came apart Friday.
Donald Trump withdrew his $7.54 billion offer.bankers representing the group trying to buy United's parent UAL Corp. met with other banks about reviving that purchase at a lower price, possibly around $250 a share, or $5.65 billion.
Separately, bankers representing the group trying to buy United's parent UAL Corp. met with other banks about reviving that purchase at a lower price, possibly around $250 a share, or $5.65 billion.a lower bid could face rejection by the UAL board.
The Manhattan real-estate developer acted.the UAL buyers failed to obtain financing for their earlier $300-a-share bid.
whose shares never reopened.trading was halted Friday for the UAL announcement.
UAL tumbled $56.875 to $222.875 on volume of 2.3 million shares.AMR declined by $22.125 to $76.50 as 4.7 million shares changed hands.
UAL tumbled $56.875 to $222.875 on volume of 2.3 million shares, and AMR declined by $22.125 to $76.50.4.7 million shares changed hands.
that showed signs of stalling.problems emerged with the UAL deal.
AMR's stock had retreated as low as $97.75 last week.reaching an intraday high of $107.50 the day Mr. Trump disclosed his bid Oct. 5.
Some takeover stock traders had been betting against Mr. Trump.he has a record of disclosing stakes in companies that are potential takeover targets, then selling at a profit without making a bid.
Mr. Trump withdrew his bid.the AMR board ever formally considered it.
AMR had weighed a wide range of possible responses, from flat rejection to recapitalizations and leveraged buy-outs that might have included either employees, a friendlier buyer such as Texas billionaire Robert Bass, or both.AMR had sought to foil Mr. Trump in Congress by lobbying for legislation that would have bolstered the authority of the Transportation Department to reject airline buy-outs.
AMR declined to comment.Mr. Trump didn't respond to requests for interviews.
to notify the market.selling any shares.
he didn't sell.his announcement reached the market.
Some analysts said AMR Chairman Robert Crandall might seize the opportunity presented by the stock price drop to protect the nation's largest airline with a defensive transaction, such as the sale of stock to a friendly holder or company employees.other knowledgeable observers said they believed Mr. Crandall and the AMR board might well decide to tough it out without taking any extra steps.
they believed Mr. Trump might come back with a lower bid.others remained skeptical.
he was dropping it "in light of the recent change in market conditions." He said he might now sell his AMR stake, buy more shares, or make another offer at a lower price.Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp., the two lead lenders on the UAL buy-out, met with other banks yesterday to determine if they would be willing to finance the buy-out at a lower price.
he was dropping it "in light of the recent change in market conditions." He said he might now sell his AMR stake, buy more shares, or make another offer at a lower price.Citicorp and Chase Manhattan Corp., the two lead lenders on the UAL buy-out, met with other banks yesterday to determine if they would be willing to finance the buy-out at a lower price.
Citicorp had discussed lowering the offer to $250 a share.that price was a talking point and that no decision has been made.
that price was a talking point.that no decision has been made.
The first UAL deal unraveled.Citibank and Chase couldn't raise $7.2 billion.
Citibank and Chase had agreed to commit $3 billion.they were "highly confident" of raising another $4.2 billion.
Together, Citicorp and Chase received $8 million in fees to raise the rest of the financing.other banks balked at the low interest rate and banking fees the UAL group was willing to pay them.
but isn't likely to boost its $965 million equity contribution.is the group likely to come forward with a revised offer within the next 48 hours despite the hopes of many traders.
UAL's board could reject the new price as too low, especially since there aren't any competing bids.the coalition of labor and management, longtime enemies who joined forces only under the threat of Mr. Davis's bid, could break apart now.
The pilot union is vowing to pursue an acquisition whatever the board decides.if the board rejects a reduced bid and decides to explore other alternatives, it could transform what has been a harmonious process into an adversarial one.
they are crucial to any sale or restructuring.they can refuse to fly the airplanes.
the board mightn't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders.they were to insist on a low bid of, say $200 a share.
If they were to insist on a low bid of, say $200 a share, the board mightn't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders.banks might hesitate to finance a transaction the pilots oppose.
The pilots could play hardball by noting they are crucial to any sale or restructuring because they can refuse to fly the airplanes..If they were to insist on a low bid of, say $200 a share, the board mightn't be able to obtain a higher offer from other bidders because banks might hesitate to finance a transaction the pilots oppose.because UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL executives have joined the pilots' bid, the board might be forced to exclude him from its deliberations in order to be fair to other bidders.
Also the board might be forced to exclude him from its deliberations.UAL Chairman Stephen Wolf and other UAL executives have joined the pilots' bid.
to restrict the RTC to Treasury borrowings only.the agency receives specific congressional authorization.
The complex financing plan in the S&L bailout law includes raising $30 billion from debt issued by the newly created RTC Another $20 billion would be raised through Treasury bonds, which pay lower interest rates.the RTC also requires "working" capital to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that are sold, until the assets can be sold separately.
The complex financing plan in the S&L bailout law includes raising $30 billion from debt issued by the newly created RTC.But the RTC requires "working" capital to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that are sold, until the assets can be sold separately.
to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that are sold.the assets can be sold separately.
That debt would be paid off.the assets are sold.
The agency has already spent roughly $19 billion selling 34 insolvent S&Ls.it is likely to sell or merge 600 by the time the bailout concludes.
Absent other working capital the RTC would be forced to delay other thrift resolutions.cash could be raised by selling the bad assets.
We would have to wait.we have collected on those assets.
We would have to wait until we have collected on those assets.we can move forward.
The law does allow the RTC to borrow from the Treasury up to $5 billion at any time.it says the RTC's total obligations may not exceed $50 billion, but that figure is derived after including notes and other debt, and subtracting from it the market value of the assets the RTC holds.
the RTC's total obligations may not exceed $50 billion.that figure is derived after including notes and other debt, and subtracting from it the market value of the assets the RTC holds.
but that figure is derived.including notes and other debt, and subtracting from it the market value of the assets the RTC holds.
The law does allow the RTC to borrow from the Treasury up to $5 billion at any time..Moreover, it says the RTC's total obligations may not exceed $50 billion, but that figure is derived after including notes and other debt, and subtracting from it the market value of the assets the RTC holds.Congress didn't anticipate or intend more public debt.
But Congress didn't anticipate or intend more public debt.the RTC Oversight Board has been remiss in not keeping Congress informed.
The RTC is going to have to pay a price of prior consultation on the Hill.they want that kind of flexibility.
but decided not to.the market recovered yesterday.
but decided not to.the market recovered yesterday.
This time, the firms were ready.Fidelity prepared ads several months ago in case of a market plunge.
the investment firm ordered full pages in the Monday editions of half a dozen newspapers.the market went into its free fall Friday afternoon.
the investment firm ordered full pages in the Monday editions of half a dozen newspapers.the market went into its free fall Friday afternoon.
which already was operating.which many clients didn't know about.
to stay in the market.even to plunge in with Fidelity.
Fidelity, for example, prepared ads several months ago in case of a market plunge.PaineWebber was able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash.
In the aftermath of the 1987 debacle, the brokerage firm began taping commercials in-house.getting its timing down fast enough to tape a commercial after the market closed and rush it on the air that night.
In the aftermath of the 1987 debacle, the brokerage firm began taping commercials in-house.getting its timing down fast enough to tape a commercial after the market closed and rush it on the air that night.
to tape a commercial.the market closed.
In the aftermath of the 1987 debacle, the brokerage firm began taping commercials in-house, ultimately getting its timing down fast enough to tape a commercial after the market closed and rush it on the air that night.It negotiated an arrangement with Cable News Network under which CNN would agree to air its last-minute creations.
an even harder sell, recommending specific stocks.it settled on just urging the clients who are its lifeline to keep that money in the market.
the true value hasn't changed.you owned it and liked it Friday.
With the market fluctuating.and closing up more than 88 points yesterday.
At Shearson Lehman, executives created potential new commercials Friday night and throughout the weekend.had to regroup yesterday afternoon.
The ad would have run during the World Series tomorrow.in a meeting after the market closed yesterday, Shearson executives decided not to go ahead with the stock-market ad.
In any case, the brokerage firms are clearly moving faster to create new ads than they did in the fall of 1987.it remains to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective.
Edward Eskandarian, former chairman of Della Femina, McNamee WCRS/Boston, reached an agreement in principle to acquire a majority stake in Arnold Advertising, a small Boston shop.McDonald's Corp., Oak Brook, Ill., named Arnold to handle its estimated $4 million cooperative ad account for the Hartford, Conn., area.
Baseball, that game of the long haul, is the quintessential sport of the mean.the mean ol' law caught up with the San Francisco Giants in the World Series last weekend.
anything can happen.you get your pitch, and take a good swing.
He hit a 2-0 pitch from Rick Reuschel into the left-field stands in inning four to stretch his team's lead from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1, where it stayed.If you get your pitch, and take a good swing, anything can happen," he remarked.
he may have some evening up coming.with the way his split-fingered fastball is behaving, that might not be this week.
which looks like a fastball.it dives beneath the lunging bat.
that the home fans in this Series of the Subway Called BART would have been ecstatic over the proceedings.they observe them in relative calm.
Partisans of the two combatants sat side by side in the 49,000-plus seats of Oakland Coliseum.while they cheered their favorites and booed the opposition, hostilities advanced no further, at least as far as I could see.
and hostilities advanced no further, at least as far as I could see.they cheered their favorites and booed the opposition.
I'm for the Giants today.only because they lost yesterday.
I'm for the Giants today.but they lost yesterday.
I choose to believe it's the latter.it probably springs from the fact that just about everyone out here, including the A's and Giants, is originally from somewhere else.
that you'd need uniformed police in every other seat to separate opposing fans, and only the suicidal would bifurcate their bonnets.this were a New York Yankees-Mets series, or one between the Chicago Cubs and White Sox.
that you'd need uniformed police in every other seat to separate opposing fans.only the suicidal would bifurcate their bonnets.
that the fan who caught it agreed to turn the ball over to him in return for an autograph.he hit his first career home run last season.
you see every ball tremendously.you're in the groove.
I believe in the law of averages," declared San Francisco batting coach Dusty Baker after game two. "I'd rather see a so-so hitter who's hot come up for the other side than a good hitter who's cold.the old Dodger slugger wisely offered no prediction about when good times would return to his side.
you never know when you'll get it back.it goes.
you never know when you'll get it back.it goes.
Net income for the quarter fell to $93.1 million from $103.1 million.per-share profit dropped only 2% to $1.23 a share from $1.26 a share.
But per-share profit dropped only 2% to $1.23 a share from $1.26 a share.the company continued its stock buy-back plan.
But per-share profit dropped only 2% to $1.23 a share from $1.26 a share.the company continued its stock buy-back plan.
NCR Corp. reported a 10% drop in third-quarter net income, citing intense competition that caused its gross profit margins to dip.The computer maker said the negative effect of a stronger U.S. dollar will "adversely affect" its fourth-quarter performance and "make it difficult" to better 1988 results.
revenue declined both in the U.S. and overseas.orders in the U.S. showed "good gains" during the latest quarter.
revenue declined both in the U.S. and overseas, reflecting a world-wide softening of the computer markets.NCR is affected by the retail and financial sectors, "areas of the economy that have generally not been robust.
however, why limit the practice to the poor, maligned analysts whose ability to see into the future is fragile at best.the firms are serious.
I'm delighted that Wall Street is finally tuning in to the hard, cold facts of the real working world.why limit the practice to the poor, maligned analysts whose ability to see into the future is fragile at best.
At Jefferies & Co., J. Francis Palamara didn't reach the office until 5:30 a.m.then he had been up most of the night at home.
At Jefferies & Co., J. Francis Palamara didn't reach the office until 5:30 a.m.but he had been up most of the night at home.
People are looking for possible opportunities to buy.nobody wants to stick their chin out.
By lunchtime, the selling was at near-panic fever.as the day ended in a frantic Wall Street-inspired rally, the City breathed a sigh of relief.
But the City breathed a sigh of relief.the day ended in a frantic Wall Street-inspired rally.
In the wake of Wall Street's plunge last Friday, the London market was considered especially vulnerable.before the opening of trading here yesterday, all eyes were on early trading in Tokyo for a clue as to how widespread the fallout might be.
And all eyes were on early trading in Tokyo for a clue as to how widespread the fallout might be.the opening of trading here yesterday.
By the time trading officially got under way at 9 a.m., the news from Asia was in.it left mixed signals for London.
By the time trading officially got under way at 9 a.m., the news from Asia was in.it left mixed signals for London.
Right away, the reds outnumbered the blues, 80 to 20.the index opened at 2076.8, off 157.1 points, or 7%.
I see concern.I don't see any panic.
trying to match buyers and sellers.there weren't many buyers.
On the screens, only two forlorn blue figures remained.the index had recovered a few points and was off about 140.
let's pick up a little stock.Tokyo didn't collapse.
The vivid yellow figures showed the best price at 845 pence, ($13.27).Mr. Smith's traders started putting out feelers.
The vivid yellow figures showed the best price at 845 pence, ($13.27).Mr. Smith's traders started putting out feelers.
The vivid yellow figures showed the best price at 845 pence, ($13.27) and Mr. Smith's traders started putting out feelers.the market sensed a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling, and the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence.
But the market sensed a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling.the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence.
But the market sensed a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling.the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence.
they run from you -- they keep changing their prices.I want to buy.
they run from you -- they keep changing their prices.I want to buy.
By this time, it was 4:30 a.m. in New York.Mr. Smith fielded a call from a New York customer wanting an opinion on the British stock market.
Conversation was subdued.most patrons watched the latest market statistics on television.
off at least 10%.you could calculate the index.
Shearson traders and salesmen traded bets on how low the New York market would open.2:30 p.m. -- Wall Street's opening time -- neared.
In the center of the trading floor, chief trader Roger Streeter and two colleagues scrambled for the telephones.the New York market opened.
Mr. Streeter and trader Sam Ruiz bought them to resell in the U.K.Wall Street traders dumped American Depositary Receipts in Jaguar PLC.
The MMI has gone better," shouted one trader at about 3:15 London time.the U.S. Major Markets Index contract suddenly indicated a turnabout.
the London trading room went wild.Wall Street strengthened.
Traders shouted.their screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on Wall Street.
Traders shouted.their screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on Wall Street.
as their screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on Wall Street.nine minutes later, Wall Street suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day.
some wondered whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it.the London market rallied.
every bad thing that has one chance in a million of going wrong will go wrong at least once a year.you have a million people working for you.
that every good thing that has one chance in a million of going right will go right at least once a year.you have a million people working for you.
The bill is expected to be taken up by the Public Works and Transportation Committee tomorrow.a floor vote by next week will be urged.
In a letter to subcommittee Chairman James Oberstar (D., Minn.), Mr. Trump criticized the bill as an explicit effort to thwart his bid for AMR, and said it contributed to the collapse of the deal.Elaine Chao, deputy transportation secretary sent a letter to express the administration's opposition to the bill "in its present form.
Rep. Oberstar brushed off Mr. Trump's allegations as an "excuse for his own deal failing.He said the fact that the other letter hadn't come from Transportation Secretary Samuel Skinner indicated there is "wiggle room" in the administration's position.
Mr. Oberstar and other committee members repeatedly stressed that the legislation wasn't a response to any particular market situation.they cited the UAL and AMR examples as reasons to move quickly to enact this legislation.
It's still on the fast track.we still want to do it.
to add stability and certainty to the airline-acquisition process.to preserve the safety and fitness of the industry.
In general, the bill would give the Transportation Department a 30-day review period.15% or more of the voting stock of a major U.S. air carrier could be acquired.
In general, the bill would give the Transportation Department a 30-day review period before 15% or more of the voting stock of a major U.S. air carrier could be acquired.It would require the acquiring party to notify the transportation secretary and to provide all information relevant to determining the intent of the acquisition.
to notify the transportation secretary.to provide all information relevant to determining the intent of the acquisition.
the secretary to reject a buy-out.sufficient information hasn't been provided.
if sufficient information hasn't been provided.if the buy-out is likely to weaken the carrier financially, result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets, or give control to a foreign interest.
to reject a buy-out.or the buy-out is likely to weaken the carrier financially, result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets, or give control to a foreign interest.
the secretary would have authority to extend the review period 20 days.more information is needed.
All the witnesses, both congressmen and industry experts, expressed support for the bill in order to prevent profiteers from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe, cost-effective service.several committee members disapproved, some backing Mr. Trump's claim that the threat of regulation caused the failure of the UAL deal and the stock-market plunge.
It could be a long meeting.it could be a short one.
We're encouraged that talks are scheduled again.beyond that, we have made no expression of expectations.
Work at Boeing continues with supervisors and other non-striking personnel manning the lines.at the company's Wichita, Kan., plant, about 2,400 of the 11,700 machinists still are working.
DPC Acquisition Partners, a hostile suitor for Dataproducts Corp., said it intends to launch a tender offer for the computer printer maker's common stock.DPC, a group led by the New York investment firm Crescott Inc said it plans to file preliminary materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding a shareholder solicitation to oust Dataproducts' board.
and made a $15-a-share bid for the company in May.Dataproducts management considered the $283.7 million proposal unacceptable.
to split into three sectors, to phase out domestic printer manufacturing operations.to sell its New England subsidiary.
Share prices plummeted across Europe yesterday in response to Friday's New York sell-off.some issues staged a late comeback after Wall Street opened without another rout.
but some issues staged a late comeback.Wall Street opened without another rout.
which closed.the New York exchanges opened.
In London, prices plummeted in early trading and were off as much as 9%.coming back strong after the New York opening to close down only 3.2%.
There may be one or other psychological or technical reactions.they aren't based on fundamentals.
The Frankfurt Stock Exchange was the hardest hit of the major European markets, with the DAX Index dropping 12.8% In London, prices plummeted in early trading and were off as much as 9%.Paris was hard hit.
The Frankfurt Stock Exchange was the hardest hit of the major European markets In London, prices plummeted in early trading and were off as much as 9% Paris also was hard hit..Share prices fell in Milan, Amsterdam, Zurich, Madrid and Stockholm.Prices in Brussels tumbled.
The DAX Index of 30 West German blue chips plunged 12.8%, a one-day record, wiping out the summer's gains.two years ago on Black Monday, the new index would have dropped 9.4%, according to a projection by the exchange.
Investors may have reacted so strongly to Friday's U.S. stock market loss.they had vivid memories of the Frankfurt exchange's losing 35% of its value in the 1987 crash and its wake.
Investors may have reacted so strongly to Friday's U.S. stock market loss because they had vivid memories of the Frankfurt exchange's losing 35% of its value in the 1987 crash and its wake.This time many small investors may have been hurt by acting so swiftly.
he told clients to buy selected West German blue chips.they fell by about 10%.
Frankfurt's normal two-hour trading session was extended 75 minutes.the opening was delayed 30 minutes because of the crush of sell orders.
It took three-quarters of an hour.enough prices could be worked out to get a reading on the market.
Some big institutions, including banks, began picking up lower-priced shares late yesterday.most investors wanted to see what would happen in New York before acting.
to see what would happen in New York.acting.
but most investors wanted to see what would happen in New York before acting.even if Wall Street continues to stabilize the latest blow to investor confidence could inhibit a swift recovery for the Frankfurt exchange.
the latest blow to investor confidence could inhibit a swift recovery for the Frankfurt exchange.Wall Street continues to stabilize.
which already was showing signs of weakness.the DAX had slipped from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on Sept. 8.
it hoped to raise 1.2 billion marks ($642.2 million) by issuing four million shares at 300 marks each.yesterday's market cropped Dresdner's share price by 33 marks to 309 marks a share, leaving little incentive for investors to subscribe to the standing price unless the market recovers quickly.
leaving little incentive for investors to subscribe to the standing price.the market recovers quickly.
there was panic buying in Paris.Wall Street turned around shortly after the opening.
that traders who had called to place sell orders changed their line in mid-conversation, ordering buys instead.the news spread that Wall Street was moving up.
to place sell orders.ordering buys.
however, the big boys entered the market, looking for bargains.Wall Street turned.
however, the big boys entered the market, looking for bargains.Wall Street turned.
Trading was driven primarily by small investors and speculators, with large institutions waiting on the sidelines until late in the day.When Wall Street turned the big boys entered the market.
J.P. Morgan & Co. swung to a loss in the third quarter.NCNB Corp. reported net income more than doubled, and Security Pacific Corp. net rose 10%.
while NCNB Corp. reported net income more than doubled.Security Pacific Corp. net rose 10%.
had they been accruing interest.Such loans to Argentina remain classified as non-accruing.
NCNB Corp. 's net income more than doubled in the period, largely because of continued strong performance by the bank's Texas operations.The strong performance contrasted with an unexpectedly large increase in the size of NCNB's problem loans, particularly in the Southeast.
The deterioration in credit quality offset strong loan growth of 17% in NCNB's Southeast operations, as well as a 28% growth in deposits resulting from an aggressive marketing campaign.The higher rates paid on deposits helped squeeze NCNB's net interest margin in the Southeast to 3.38% from 3.80% a year earlier.
Results were released.the market closed.
to complete the NCNB Texas purchase.to acquire several small failed thrifts to fill out its regional franchise.
Security Pacific's earnings growth slowed in the third quarter.the Los Angeles bank holding company was still able to post a 10% increase in net income because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans.
Security Pacific's earnings growth slowed in the third quarter.but the Los Angeles bank holding company was able to post a 10% increase in net income because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans.
These high-yielding loans in effect replaced some low-yielding assets such as inter-bank loans, which were allowed to decrease.Security Pacific's net interest margin fell only 13 basis points, a more mild decrease than some major banks outside California.
Security Pacific's loan-loss provision was down 22%, or $30.4 million.it added to its foreign-debt reserve the year before.
McCaw has "no obligation to purchase.the definition of private market value is uncertain.
that McCaw would be able to control LIN's operations.and could operate LIN in a manner which could diminish its private market value and attractiveness to a third-party purchaser in five years.
at present none of us believes an offer for less than $25 per share would be fair.some believe that $25 is too low.
A spokesman for Dow Jones said he hadn't seen the group's filing.added, "obviously Dow Jones disagrees with their conclusions.
the U.S. would have the right to suspend some trade concessions to Canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by U.S. fish-processing companies in Alaska and the Pacific Northwest.a solution isn't reached by then.
the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the U.S.-Canadian "free trade" agreement has ruled that Canada's restrictions on exports of Pacific salmon and herring violate the accord.the dispute-settlement panel accepted the "legitimacy of Canada's position on the use of these landing requirements to conserve and manage these important fisheries.
that the Canadian trade restrictions "are illegal.that the "landing requirement must be ended.
that the dispute-settlement panel rejected this Canadian government argument.an international panel set up under the rules of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in Geneva determined that the original Canadian fish-export restrictions violated GATT rules.
the U.S. won't accept any delays after Nov. 13.U.S. fish-processing firms enter into contracts in the fall to purchase the next season's catch.
the Canadian restrictions must be removed.such contracts are concluded.
to pay no heed.duty calls.
In exchange for the $76 million they are owed, creditor banks will receive 3.9 million shares of BancOklahoma common stock and the proceeds from the future sales of four subsidiary banks to private buyers.under the agreement, debenture holders will get one million shares of common stock in exchange for $7.7 million in debentures and holders of BancOklahoma's series A preferred stock will receive 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred they own.
Also under the agreement, debenture holders will get one million shares of common stock in exchange for $7.7 million in debentures.holders of BancOklahoma's series A preferred stock will receive 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred they own.
Were it true that a weak currency paves the way for trade surpluses.presumably Argentina would be the center of today's global economy.
Under terms of the offer, the sporting goods maker will swap $9 face amount of 9 1/4% subordinated notes due 1996 and one warrant for each common share.BSN is offering $850 face amount of new notes and 64 common-stock warrants for each $1,000 face amount of its convertible debt outstanding.
BSN will increase its debt by $9 million, but it also will recognize a $2 million gain from retiring the old debt.all the bondholders and holders of one million common shares accept the offer.
BSN will increase its debt by $9 million.it also will recognize a $2 million gain from retiring the old debt.
BSN will increase its debt by $9 million.but it will recognize a $2 million gain from retiring the old debt.
Merrill Lynch & Co. 's net income dropped 37%.Bear Stearns Cos. posted a 7.5% gain in net, and PaineWebber Group Inc. 's profit fell.
Merrill Lynch & Co. 's net income dropped 37%.Bear Stearns Cos. posted a 7.5% gain in net, and PaineWebber Group Inc. 's profit fell.
Merrill Lynch & Co. 's net income dropped 37%, while Bear Stearns Cos. posted a 7.5% gain in net.PaineWebber Group Inc. 's profit fell.
Merrill Lynch & Co. 's net income dropped 37%, while Bear Stearns Cos. posted a 7.5% gain in net.PaineWebber Group Inc. 's profit fell.
Investment banking revenue fell 22% to $296.6 million on fewer equity and municipal underwritings.Merrill Lynch's commission revenue grew 21% to $462.8 million, on higher share prices and volume and on strong sales of mutual funds.
At Merrill Lynch, third-period net was $41 million, or 34 cents a share, down from $65.6 million, or 58 cents a share, a year ago.a loss of $2.2 million from the discontinued operations and disposal of its Fine Homes International Limited Partnership real-estate subsidiary.
Investment banking revenue climbed 25%.commission revenue advanced 31% on a stronger retail market.
Investment banking revenue climbed 25%.commission revenue advanced 31% on a stronger retail market.
At Merrill Lynch, third-period net was $41 million, or 34 cents a share, down from $65.6 million, or 58 cents a share, a year ago Bear Stearns said net in the first quarter ended Sept. 29 reached $22.1 million, or 23 cents a share, from $20.5 million, or 20 cents a share, in the year-earlier quarter.PaineWebber posted net income for the third quarter of $16.8 million, or 41 cents a share.
Retail profit surged.it was only a "modest contributor" to third-quarter results.
Individual investors, investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates can suffer liquidity and payment problems.stocks dive.
Individual investors, investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates can suffer liquidity and payment problems.stocks dive.
Individual investors, investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates can suffer liquidity and payment problems when stocks dive.several large banks said yesterday they detected no signs of unusual demand for credit that would signal such difficulties.
That's good news.we all swim in this water.
We were all a little goosey over the weekend trying to forecast what would happen {Monday}.it's been very quiet.
No fiddling with systems and procedures will ever prevent markets from suffering a panic wave of selling.markets can operate with greater or lesser efficiency.
the exchange will halt trading for one hour.the Dow Jones index falls 250 points in a day.
the exchange will close for an additional two hours.the decline hits 400 points.
It is impossible to know whether that theory is realistic.A temporary cessation of trading may discourage a selling panic from feeding on itself.
A temporary cessation of trading may indeed discourage a selling panic from feeding on itself.there is also the possibility that shutting down markets will intensify fears and cause an even more abrupt slide in prices.
A temporary cessation of trading may indeed discourage a selling panic from feeding on itself.But there is the possibility that shutting down markets will intensify fears and cause an even more abrupt slide in prices.
and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes.the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index had fallen 12 points, or about 100 points on the Dow Jones index.
prices fell sharply.liquidity on that market weakened.
prices fell sharply.liquidity on that market weakened.
additional liquidity would have been provided.the decline, most probably, would have been less intense.
At 3:30, after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and Washington, the futures exchanges reopened.Futures trading was halted altogether at 3:45.
Futures trading, however, was halted altogether at 3:45.the futures markets had dropped an additional 30 points.
Futures trading, however, was halted altogether at 3:45.At this point, the options markets shut down and once more left all sales to be handled by the New York Stock Exchange.
Traders can vary their strategies and execute their orders in any one of them.It makes no sense for each market to adopt different circuit breakers.
Synchronized circuit breakers would not have halted the slide in prices on Friday.they probably would have made for smoother, less volatile executions.
one market shut down for 30 minutes.the Dow declines 100 points.
one market shut down for 30 minutes.the Dow declines 100 points.
The need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials will disappear.rules are in place that synchronize circuit breakers in all markets.
The need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials will disappear.rules are in place that synchronize circuit breakers in all markets.
The new circuit breakers will require that futures and options trading continue as long as the New York Stock Exchange remains open.they are to be applied at all.
that futures and options trading continue.the New York Stock Exchange remains open.
Telephone service has been improved for customers trying to reach their brokers.specialists have larger capital positions.
In many ways, our financial markets are better prepared today to handle a decline than they were two years ago.the task of improving market performance remains unfinished.
The "social dimension" -- worker concerns -- of the European Community's plan to open its internal borders in 1992 could set the effort "off the rails.not done reasonably.
U.S. companies wanting to expand in Europe face "tough pressure" from unions in nations such as West Germany.unions won't like plant relocations and needed restructuring.
where wages are low.unions are weaker.
he was punched and kicked by one player.that the other broke his jaw with a baseball bat.
The fan said he was punched and kicked by one player and that the other broke his jaw with a baseball bat.The judge dismissed the fan's suit against the team.
An Association of Academic Health Centers report urges freeing nurses from duties that don't require special skills.It recommends better retirement and day-care benefits, and basing pay on education, experience and nurses' demanding work schedules.
An Association of Academic Health Centers report urges freeing nurses from duties that don't require special skills..It also recommends better retirement and day-care benefits, and basing pay on education, experience and nurses' demanding work schedules.it opposes an American Medical Association proposal for creating a "registered care technologist," as "potentially divisive.
Over a third of 618 hospitals surveyed by consultant Hewitt Associates use a "clinical ladder.Many use recruiting bonuses, tuition reimbursement, loan repayment or child-care help.
Despite labor-shortage warnings, 80% aim for first-year wage increases of under 4%.77% say they'd try to replace workers, if struck, or would consider it.
they'd try to replace workers or would consider it.struck.
About 12% have retired from a full-time job.54% were asked to stay on full time.
HOME-SALE LOSSES rise.they're often covered by employers.
HOME-SALE LOSSES rise, but they're often covered by employers.they search for ways to limit the damage.
Since 1984, more companies give sales-loss aid.many real-estate values depreciated.
it has given some employees the full purchase price.values fell from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site.
it has given some employees the full purchase price.values fell from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site.
Big Board officials were self-congratulatory about how well the day had gone.it was all over and stocks had staged a huge recovery.
Big Board officials were self-congratulatory about how well the day had gone.it was all over and stocks had staged a huge recovery.
When it was all over.stocks had staged a huge recovery.
We had no operating problems at all," Mr. Phelan said.the market closed.
the volume was still well within the 600 million-share capacity that the exchange has said it can handle daily since beefing up its computers after the October 1987 crash.reaching blockbuster proportions yesterday.
the volume was still well within the 600 million-share capacity that the exchange has said it can handle daily since beefing up its computers after the October 1987 crash.reaching blockbuster proportions yesterday.
it can handle daily.beefing up its computers after the October 1987 crash.
The so-called circuit breakers devised by the Big Board and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange to quell free falls in stock and futures prices weren't triggered yesterday.the markets were higher for most of the day.
customer traffic at chicken restaurants fell 10% in the second quarter.the overall fast-food customer count was down 2%.
customer traffic at chicken restaurants fell 10% in the second quarter.the overall fast-food customer count was down 2%.
Church's Fried Chicken Inc. and Popeye's Famous Fried Chicken Inc are still troubled by overlapping restaurant locations.Chicken chains are feeling more pressure from McDonald's Corp.
New management at Kentucky Fried Chicken, a unit of PepsiCo Inc., has fought back with new medium and large chicken sandwiches for the lunch crowd.the chain is testing products that aren't fried, such as "char-grilled" chicken, to try to win health-conscious consumers.
And the chain is testing products that aren't fried, such as "char-grilled" chicken, to try to win health-conscious consumers.Kentucky Fried Chicken is testing home-delivery of chicken.
Kentucky Fried Chicken also is testing home-delivery of chicken.problems with keeping chicken warm and fresh must be solved first.
But some fast-food industry analysts say problems with keeping chicken warm and fresh must be solved first.A Kentucky Fried Chicken spokesman disputed the notion that the delivery service experienced problems in some markets where testing has been discontinued.
The advertising industry is buzzing with rumors that Kentucky Fried Chicken will drop Young & Rubicam and seek a new ad agency.the company declines to comment.
They've been laggard.they'll have to become more aggressive.
who want exposure.shun pushy ads.
Hospitals have signed up to use the messages to promote fundraisers.Equitable Gas Co. is considering the format to offer energy tips to consumers.
Reluctant Advertisers.Try Soft-Sell Spots.such spots can be too soft.
Big Bear Supermarkets Inc., a grocery chain based in San Diego, plans to display shelf cards and distribute pamphlets recommending products deemed safe for the environment.the chain is quickly realizing the pitfalls of such endorsements.
But the chain is quickly realizing the pitfalls of such endorsements.it recommends nonchlorinated dishwasher detergent and puts Sunlight on its environmentally safe list.
noting that chlorine is present in all major dishwasher detergents.Lever Bros. confirms that its Sunlight brand does contain chlorine bleach.
that its Sunlight brand does contain chlorine bleach.it isn't listed on the label for the powder version.
Our intent is to promote the best alternative.it's important that we be accurate.
Our intent is to promote the best alternative And it's important that we be accurate.in the end, customers' wishes are what will prevail.
Big Bear doesn't care for disposable diapers.parents demand them.
Our intent is to promote the best alternative And it's important that we be accurate.We'll be forced to sell items we might not philosophically agree with.
soap sales climbed 5%.bars were neatly stacked on shelves instead of dumped in a wire basket.
soap sales climbed 5%.bars were neatly stacked on shelves instead of dumped in a wire basket.
Dr. Novello would succeed C. Everett Koop.she is nominated by President Bush and confirmed by the Senate.
Dr. Novello, an expert on pediatric kidney diseases, is deputy director of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development.She has served on several task forces on acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
Dr. Novello's office said she wouldn't talk with reporters.it refused to release any information about her.
she is 44 years old.she studied at the University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine.
The continuing series of HUD scandals is a sadly predictable result of pork-barrel politics.lobbies such as the National Association of Home Builders (NAHB) continue to pressure Capitol Hill for more special-interest spending.
There's nothing unusual about business groups pushing for more government spending.the NAHB was created in 1943 out of an organization that made its name fighting a Roosevelt administration proposal to take over all defense housing production.
I wouldn't have a problem.other programs had taken a similar hit.
that the U.S. faces a multifaceted housing crisis -- reduced affordability of homes for first-time buyers, increased homelessness, and lower apartment construction rates -- that will be "very difficult" to solve "without expanded federal resources.NAHB support for subsidies is not related to the current housing crunch.
But NAHB support for subsidies is not related to the current housing crunch; over the years the NAHB has backed a host of public programs.the NAHB remains susceptible to internal pressure from members that specialize in subsidized production.
the mere diversion of funds from other parts of the economy and from other forms of housing (such as low-income) to the single-family home market would result in a major expense.Mr. Colton says expanding FHA lending would result in "no cost to the government.
The federal government has had to pump in $2.28 billion into the VA housing program since 1984 to keep the fund afloat.the VA requested an additional $120 million for the fiscal year just ended.
In its nicely produced publication "Where Will Our Children Live?" the NAHB does acknowledge that "of course, the full measure of housing affordability cannot be provided by the federal government." It points to the pernicious impact of local government regulation, particularly zoning and building fees, which pushes the price of housing out of the reach of low- and middle-income people.while the NAHB has suggested actions that states and localities should take to reduce regulatory barriers, the association has proposed no activist legislative program -- comparable to, say, its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- to eliminate counterproductive controls.
But the association has proposed no activist legislative program -- comparable to, say, its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- to eliminate counterproductive controls.the NAHB has suggested actions that states and localities should take to reduce regulatory barriers.
The builders like the subsidies.at the same time they tend to be fiscal conservatives in terms of major issues, such as the balanced-budget amendment.
The only strong opposition to changing the EC treaty comes from British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.the process of convening the intergovernmental conference doesn't require unanimity.
French President Francois Mitterrand fought to set a date for the conference during the EC summit in Madrid last June.the move was scuttled because of opposition by Mrs. Thatcher and West German Chancellor Helmut Kohl.
the unfortunate victim replied, "It was a combination of things.asked "What went wrong?.
It was a combination of things.so it was on Gray Friday.
however, it's probably the case that no barriers should have been erected to stop the procession before the end of the rout(e).that is so.
The grand marshal of this parade would appear to have been excess leverage.Even if that is so it's probably the case that no barriers should have been erected to stop the procession before the end of the rout(e).
the failure to get cash from Japanese and American banks confirmed a growing fear among arbitragers that the pageant of high-leverage takeover deals is ending.the union-bidder expects to patch together a substitute offer, consisting of less cash.
As usual, few favorable reviews were heard for that ever-present marching band of program traders.most serious studies suggest they only play the music that others write.
As usual, few favorable reviews were heard for that ever-present marching band of program traders.What really spooked the crowds along Wall Street was the sudden concern that, whatever the reason, the pool of debt capital is drying up.
Gray Friday reflects a panic mainly by the takeover arbitragers, rather than the small investor.their highly margined investments in the "deal" stocks are jeopardized by the unexpected drying up of the lubricant for deal financing.
Deal stocks led the market down.they absorbed the heaviest losses.
Investors have reacted by ignoring recent efforts to float junk bonds by Ohio Mattress and by forcing Ramada to postpone indefinitely its planned junk-bond sale and restructuring.high-yield mutual funds have declined across the board and the many firms planning to sell $11 billion in junk bonds before year-end are experiencing anxious times.
As a result, high-yield mutual funds have declined across the board.the many firms planning to sell $11 billion in junk bonds before year-end are experiencing anxious times.
These are all market excesses.what we've seen is the market reining them in.
Of course, Washington hadn't been silent in the days leading up to the debacle.its tendency to meddle in the leverage equation remains a troublesome prospect.
Of course, Washington hadn't been silent in the days leading up to the debacle, and its tendency to meddle in the leverage equation remains a troublesome prospect.those preliminary steps shouldn't distract us from the basic market fundamentalism that was at work on Friday.
what are the implications for policy makers.it is correct to find that concerns over corporate debt and LBOs caused Gray Friday.
takeover premiums become excessive.the private market will recognize these problems more quickly and accurately than will policy makers, and the markets will move with lightning speed to impose appropriate sanctions.
LBO dealmakers become too aggressive.the private market will recognize these problems more quickly and accurately than will policy makers, and the markets will move with lightning speed to impose appropriate sanctions.
then the private market will recognize these problems more quickly and accurately than will policy makers.the markets will move with lightning speed to impose appropriate sanctions.
then the private market will recognize these problems more quickly and accurately than will policy makers.the markets will move with lightning speed to impose appropriate sanctions.
Yes, the broader exchanges got caught up in the spiral.they rode the tiger up all year.
The arbitragers and takeover initiatiors got killed on Gray Friday.the besieged managers of prospective targets cheered lustily.
you must concede that speedy and effective relief from the excesses of the takeover market is more likely to come from the marketplace than from Washington.you identify with the besieged managers.
you clearly have more to fear from private investors than from regulators.you side with the arbitragers and raiders.
you clearly have more to fear from private investors than from regulators.the Delaware courts should never be underestimated.
actual legislation would probably impose considerable harm.the average citizen is probably not harmed too much from Washington's rhetorical war against Wall Street regarding excessive financial leveraging.
to distinguish "good debt" from "bad debt.to draw the line at a particular industry, such as the airlines.
By 10 a.m. Tokyo time, the index was up 435.11 points, to 34903.80.investors hailed New York's overnight rally.
The index slid 647.33 points, or 1.8%, on Monday.Shares closed sharply lower across Europe, particularly in Frankfurt.
Shares also closed sharply lower across Europe, particularly in Frankfurt.London and a few other markets recovered some ground after stocks began to rebound in New York.
although London and a few other markets recovered some ground.stocks began to rebound in New York.
Other Asian and Pacific markets had sharper losses than Tokyo.the selling wave stopped short of precipitating another market crash.
All eyes were on Tokyo at the opening.it was the first major market to trade since Friday's 190.58-point plunge on Wall Street.
All eyes were on Tokyo at the opening because it was the first major market to trade since Friday's 190.58-point plunge on Wall Street.rather than set the tone for other markets, Japan's major institutional investors chose to remain on the sidelines.
But rather than set the tone for other markets, Japan's major institutional investors chose to remain on the sidelines.despite the sudden reappearance of stock-market turbulence, managers of Japanese investment funds said they weren't planning to unload U.S. or European equities.
We didn't trade much today.our policy now is to wait and see.
We would like to wait and see.trading goes around through Europe and New York.
that Japanese regulators would step in to ensure orderly trading.necessary.
The institutions appeared confident that Japanese regulators would step in to ensure orderly trading if necessary.there was considerable speculation during the day that the Finance Ministry was working behind the scenes to do just that.
that the Finance Ministry was working behind the scenes to do just that.in the absence of panicky trading, its presence was never overtly felt.
At the close, the Nikkei average of 225 stocks stood at 34468.69, down 647.33 points, or 1.8%.volume was thin at 526.2 million shares, compared with 574.7 million Friday.
A midmorning rebound brought it back to show a gain of about 200 at the end of the morning session.the rally failed in the afternoon.
but the rally failed in the afternoon.the market closed near the day's low.
and the market closed near the day's low.The smaller stocks in the Tokyo market's second section posted their biggest decline of the year.
that the Tokyo market didn't fall more sharply.its performance did bear some resemblance to events of two years ago, during the October 1987 global stock market crash.
On Oct. 16, 1987 -- the Friday before the Black Monday crash -- the New York market dropped 4.6%.Tokyo followed on Monday with a 2.4% drop.
Two years ago, Tokyo's biggest fall came the day after New York's 22.6% Black Monday plunge, when the Nikkei average fell 14.9%.market participants yesterday were looking ahead nervously to Wall Street's opening.
Thus, market participants yesterday were looking ahead nervously to Wall Street's opening.in New York yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 88.12 to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares.
But in New York yesterday, the Dow Jones Industrial Average surged 88.12 to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares.declining issues still outnumbered advancing ones on the broad market.
Nobuto Yasuda, a director at Yamaichi Investment Trust & Management Co., called yesterday's session "a good scenario" for Japan.Isao Ushikubo, general manager of the investment research department at Toyo Trust & Banking Co was optimistic.
this is the best time to buy.there is a panic.
Those shares which had posted gains on M&A speculation were dashed with cold water.as far as major stocks are concerned, there isn't much impact.
the region's markets were reacting to Friday's Wall Street plunge.that decline was due to local factors such as failed corporate buy-outs and a deteriorating junk-bond market.
Markets in this region aren't so geared to leveraged buy-outs.their economies generally are in good shape.
Markets in this region aren't so geared to leveraged buy-outs, and their economies generally are in good shape.there's no doubt that Asia is still following America's lead.
Malaysia and Singapore had the biggest losses.they are relatively open to rapid cash flows.
Hong Kong is the region's next most open market.many foreign investors have been staying away from it since it plunged in June amid political turmoil in China.
but many foreign investors have been staying away from it.it plunged in June amid political turmoil in China.
Singapore took the hit.when people want to get out, they tend to go where the liquidity is.
because they tend to go where the liquidity is.people want to get out.
because they tend to go where the liquidity is.people want to get out.
that even after Monday's 10% decline, the Straits Times index is up 24% this year.investors who bailed out generally did so profitably.
that even after Monday's 10% decline, the Straits Times index is up 24% this year.Kuala Lumpur's composite index yesterday ended 27.5% above its 1988 close.
Trading was heavy at about one billion shares, compared with 473.9 million Friday.the session was orderly, in contrast to the market's four-day closure after the 1987 crash.
I see maybe another 5% on the downside, not counting the risk of bad news out of China.New York doesn't collapse.
In Australia, Sydney's All Ordinaries index closed at 1601.5, down 8.1%, its biggest drop since October 1987.volume rose only to 162 million shares from 143 million Friday.
Nestor Hinzack, an analyst at brokerage firm Burdett, Buckeridge & Young Ltd., described the market's performance as "sheep-like.investors fled to bluechip Australian stocks and shunned entrepreneurial companies they perceived as having any takeover premium built into the price.
At its low it was off more than 130 points.Wall Street opened.
when many small investors held on to their shares after the October crash.the West German market continued to decline steeply for the next three months.
that everything loose would end up in California.you tipped the world on its side.
that Mr. Wright underestimated California's vitality.maybe the state's la-la factions are starting to overwhelm the forces that made it such a significant place.
the recently announced initiative would phase out major pesticides, reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40%, ban new offshore drilling, ban chemicals thought to deplete the ozone layer, and create a new state environmental officer armed with a $40 million budget to sue any firm or agency he thinks is being too dirty.passed by the voters.
Not only Californians but all Americans would pay.this thing passed.
Not only Californians but all Americans would pay if this thing passed..The initiative bars the sale of any crops in California that don't meet the initiative's standards..Kansas wheat farmers and Florida fruit growers would have to adjust or give up the California market.California is presuming to take control of the nation's farm policy.
it is inconceivable that reductions in a single state could have any impact on what is billed as a global problem.one buys into the whole greenhouse theory.
As usual the green lobby's proposal is disconnected from scientific reality.if rational science and economics have nothing to do with the new environment initiative, what is going on.
But what is going on.rational science and economics have nothing to do with the new environment initiative.
The initiative seems to have been crafted to include all the hot issues that set off the wealthy Hollywood weepers who donate money.it allows Mr. Van de Kamp to get around campaign spending limits.
This initiative is being labeled The Big Green.maybe it should be called The Big Greenback.
it is of course conceivable that in modern California it could slide through.it is possible that the Big Green initiative will be ruled unconstitutional.
the green lobby will benefit directly.this new proposal ever does become law.
that the environment is such a mom and apple-pie issue among certain segments of California's population.almost any collection of anti-scientific, anti-pocketbook nonsense can pass under its rubric.
course the state's liberals are not yet a nation unto themselves.George Bush may decide that he doesn't want to be the President who lost control of interstate commerce to an attorney general from California.
George Bush, for example, may decide that he doesn't want to be the President who lost control of interstate commerce to an attorney general from California.some other segments of California's political and media culture may yet start to point out that the initiative would impose significant costs on the state's less affluent citizens in the form of higher food prices and lost jobs.
First, there was a death watch.exhilaration.
it was strictly a big-stock rally fed by huge buying by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders.the advance cheered investors who feared a 1987-style crash would occur yesterday.
Declining stocks on the Big Board outnumbered advancers, 975 to 749.the over-the-counter market that includes many smaller stocks suffered aftershocks of Friday's late Big Board plunge.
Spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied yesterday and erased about a half of Friday's 190.58-point plunge, gaining 88.12 to 2657.38.in a divergence in two of the market's most important indicators, the Dow industrials' sister average, the 20-stock Dow Jones Transportation Average, tumbled 102.06 to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash.
Spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks, the Dow Jones Industrial Average rallied yesterday and erased about a half of Friday's 190.58-point plunge, gaining 88.12 to 2657.38.in a divergence in two of the market's most important indicators, the Dow industrials' sister average, the 20-stock Dow Jones Transportation Average, tumbled 102.06 to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash.
which each fell more than 20%.they reopened for trading yesterday.
when they reopened for trading yesterday.being suspended Friday afternoon.
Overall, "this is a pleasant rally.it's very selective.
that Friday's market debacle was "an abnormal condition, and not a disaster.to traders, it looked like disaster on the 9:30 a.m. opening bell.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average opened down 1.64 shortly after 9:30.most of the 30 blue-chip stocks in the average, including Eastman Kodak and General Motors, couldn't trade because of the heavy backlog of sell orders left over from Friday's late-afternoon rout.
The Dow dropped to a quick 27-point loss.to many traders it looked as if stocks were headed for yet another big tumble.
More stocks opened over the ensuing half hour.the 49 Big Board specialist firms in charge of keeping the market orderly groped to find buy orders from major brokerage firms.
More stocks opened over the ensuing half hour.the 49 Big Board specialist firms in charge of keeping the market orderly groped to find buy orders from major brokerage firms.
More stocks opened over the ensuing half hour.to make matters worse, computerized sell programs kicked in, hammering stocks into steeper losses.
There was heavy stock-index arbitrage.traders sold big baskets of stock and bought stock-index futures.
There was heavy stock-index arbitrage.traders sold big baskets of stock and bought stock-index futures.
that some of the big program trading firms would hold off.the market stabilized.
The Dow accelerated its slide, losing 63.52 in the first 40 minutes of trading.at 10:15 the Dow suddenly started to rebound.
Then at 10:15 the Dow suddenly started to rebound.when it shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall.
and it did so even faster than the early-morning fall.it shot upward.
Then at 10:15 the Dow suddenly started to rebound, and when it shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall.this time, it wasn't just the program traders who were responsible.
The program traders were in there, too, of course.according to one trader, the programmers "didn't look as dominant on the upside as on the downside.
But according to one trader, the programmers "didn't look as dominant on the upside as on the downside.there was {also} a lot of bargain-hunting" by institutions.
The program traders were in there, too, of course.because there was a lot of bargain-hunting" by institutions.
The stock opened late at 114 1/2, down 8 1/2.then it shot upward 7 1/2 as Goldman, Sachs & Co. stepped in and bought.
The stock opened late at 114 1/2, down 8 1/2.But it shot upward 7 1/2.
But then it shot upward 7 1/2.Goldman, Sachs & Co. stepped in and bought.
But then it shot upward 7 1/2.Goldman, Sachs & Co. stepped in and bought.
But then it shot upward 7 1/2 as Goldman, Sachs & Co. stepped in and bought.I would be surprised if Goldman represented 4% of the opening volume.
I would be surprised.Goldman represented 4% of the opening volume.
Around Wall Street, trading desks were relieved that they could at least play the market yesterday, in contrast to Friday's gridlock.the market hadn't yet crossed into positive territory, and traders were glum.
Still, the market hadn't yet crossed into positive territory.traders were glum.
Still, the market hadn't yet crossed into positive territory.traders were glum.
Still, the market hadn't yet crossed into positive territory.in another dramatic burst, the Dow tacked on 42 points in five minutes, and at 10:25 the index showed a gain of 5.74.
But in another dramatic burst, the Dow tacked on 42 points in five minutes.at 10:25 the index showed a gain of 5.74.
It was bedlam on the upside.not everybody was making money.
The carnage on the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the nation's major options market, was heavy.the trading in S&P 100 stock-index options was halted Friday.
Many market makers in the S&P 100 index options contract had bullish positions Friday.when the shutdown came they were frozen with huge losses.
and they were frozen with huge losses.the shutdown came.
This time {institutions} saw the programs coming and backed away and backed away.when the market was at a technical level to buy, they came in with a vengeance.
Then they came in with a vengeance.the market was at a technical level to buy.
James Gallagher, a partner at specialist Fowler & Rosenau, said, "The difference between today and two years ago" -- "Terrible Tuesday," Oct. 20, 1987 -- "is that then we needed a savior to go into the Major Market Index, spend $2 million and get the program rally started..This time {institutions} saw the programs coming and backed away and backed away..Then when the market was at a technical level to buy, they came in with a vengeance.according to one analyst, the timing of Major Market Index futures buying just before the turnaround was similar to that of Terrible Tuesday.
their performance yesterday was better than during Friday's late-afternoon chaos, according to traders and brokers who work with them.the Big Board's specialist firms struggled through another highly volatile trading session.
Specialists were criticized for their inability to maintain orderly markets during the Friday plunge.yesterday, even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as Merck, "we expected (the halts) and it wasn't too bad.
But yesterday, even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as Merck, "we expected (the halts).it wasn't too bad.
According to a Big Board official there were subsequent trading halts in only three issues -- AMR, Merck and Valero Energy.many stocks opened late.
No sector of the market has been spared during the past two days' gyrations.from the Dow industrials' high on Oct. 9 through Friday's plunge, relatively good performances have been turned in by real-estate, utilities, precious metals and life insurance stocks.
Yet from the Dow industrials' high on Oct. 9 through Friday's plunge, relatively good performances have been turned in by real-estate, utilities, precious metals and life insurance stocks.yesterday, the top performing industry group was oil field equipment issues.
And yesterday, the top performing industry group was oil field equipment issues.Halliburton jumped 3 1/4 to 38, Schlumberger rose 2 1/2 to 43 1/4 and Baker Hughes rose 1 1/8 to 22.
For example, Halliburton jumped 3 1/4 to 38, Schlumberger rose 2 1/2 to 43 1/4.Baker Hughes rose 1 1/8 to 22.
Among other major issues, Coca-Cola Co. closed up 2 at 66 3/4 on 1.7 million shares.American Telephone & Telegraph rose 3 1/4 to 43 on nearly 7.8 million shares.
Shares of International Business Machines finished at 103, up 1.slipping below 100 during Friday's session for the first time in five years.
Shares of three brokerage firms rose.they reported earnings.
Merrill Lynch added 1 3/4 to 28, PaineWebber rose 3/4 to 18 1/2.Bear Stearns rose 3/8 to 14 1/4.
Program trades make up 10% of the exchange's volume on an average day.despite the increase Friday, it was "certainly not something you would say precipitated the market decline.
that exchange officials had conversations with Wall Street firms throughout the weekend.that "all the participants behaved very, very responsibly today.
Mr. Phelan expressed relief that the market rebounded yesterday.Peter DaPuzzo, Shearson's head of retail equity trading, praised institutional investors in the OTC market, who were heavy buyers of the Nasdaq's biggest technology issues yesterday amid a flood of selling by other investors.
They didn't panic during the first round of selling this morning.they bought on weakness and sold into the strength, which kept the market orderly.
the performance of specialists during Friday's plunge was admirable.out of 1,640 Big Board common stocks traded during the day only seven were closed and weren't reopened before the close.
A three-judge appeals panel yesterday refused to comply.liberal Judge Pat Wald went out of her way to deny that this was a "frivolous" case.
By a 6-4 margin, House negotiators initially rejected last night a Senate provision covering all domestic flights.the six-hour compromise was soon agreed to in subsequent discussions.
As a practical matter, flights from the West Coast to Hawaii would be covered.they are under the time limit.
As a practical matter, flights from the West Coast to Hawaii would be covered.the language would exempt longer routes beginning, for example, in Chicago or on the East Coast.
The measure is attached to the more than $26 billion fiscal 1990 transportation bill within Mr. Lautenberg's jurisdiction.the final compromise is laced with more than $205 million in road projects earmarked by members as well as funds sought by major airports, including Denver.
From the outset, the tobacco industry has been uncertain as to what strategy to follow.the industry retains support in the House leadership through the influence of grower states, such as North Carolina.
Majority Whip William Gray owes a political debt to Southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the House.the Philadelphia Democrat used his position in the conference to salvage the exemption from a total ban.
the underlying bill was the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane, but politically important, projects of members.the smoking provision has attracted the most public interest.
Anybody can vote as they want.if you make a request, you should support the committee.
But you should support the committee.you make a request.
Within the Federal Aviation Administration, the final bill promises to increase spending for facilities and equipment by more than 20% from last year.total operations would rise to $3.84 billion -- a 12% boost.
The facilities account includes $40 million for Denver's ambitious new airport.the competition for these funds created shifting alliances between urban lawmakers representing established airports in Philadelphia and Michigan and the major carriers to Denver, United and Continental.
that would have delayed funds for the project.Denver and the airlines had agreed to leases for 50% of the gates.
that would have delayed funds for the project until Denver and the airlines had agreed to leases for 50% of the gates.this was rejected in favor of much looser language directing the Transportation Department to review the costs of the first phase.
The sum is more than double what the House had approved for the program.the list of qualified airports would be cut by 22 under new distance requirements and limits on the level of subsidy.
Among rail and highway accounts, the agreement provides $615 million for Amtrak, including $85 million for capital improvements.federal-formula grants for mass transit would be effectively frozen at $1.625 billion, or $20 million more than last fiscal year.
to free its top executives, Peter Guber and Jon Peters, from an exclusive agreement with Time Warner Inc. 's Warner Communications Inc.they can run Columbia Pictures Entertainment Inc.
Congress has been critical of the Bush administration for not sending enough aid to Poland.it is getting ready to send its own version of a CARE package.
Maybe they'd be willing to come back and do the same for the American people.the staffers explain their work to the Poles.
Friday's flight to quality was no longer needed.the stock market found its legs.
Friday's flight to quality was no longer needed.the stock market found its legs.
That caused investors to flee stocks and buy high-quality Treasury bonds.when stocks began to climb instead, prices of Treasury bonds declined.
But prices of Treasury bonds declined.stocks began to climb instead.
a further drop in stock prices after the nearly 200-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average on Friday.But when stocks began to climb.
yesterday's modest easing didn't stir much enthusiasm.it had been widely expected.
yesterday's modest easing didn't stir much enthusiasm because it had been widely expected.that the latest easing started last week.
that some investors were disappointed.they had expected a more aggressive easing.
they gave back three-fourths of that amount yesterday.Treasury bill rates plummeted as much as 0.70 percentage point on Friday.
After Treasury bill rates plummeted as much as 0.70 percentage point on Friday, they gave back three-fourths of that amount yesterday.The bond-equivalent yield on three-month Treasury bills was quoted late yesterday at 7.72%, compared with 7.16% Friday.
The Treasury's benchmark 30-year bond, ended about 1 3/4 points lower, or down about $17.50 for each $1,000 face amount.Investment-grade corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds fell.
Investment-grade corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds also fell.prices of junk bonds rebounded to post small gains after a volatile trading session.
but staged a modest comeback.stock prices firmed.
but staged a modest comeback.stock prices firmed.
the high-yield market was helped by active institutional buying.firms such as First Boston Corp. and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. began making a market in junk issues early in the session when prices hit severely depressed levels.
U.S. Treasury bonds were higher in overnight trading in Japan.The benchmark 30-year bond rose one point in early Japanese trading in reaction to a quick 600-point drop in the Tokyo stock market.
The benchmark 30-year bond, for example rose one point in early Japanese trading in reaction to a quick 600-point drop in the Tokyo stock market.as Japanese stocks rebounded, Treasurys retreated and ended just modestly higher.
But Treasurys retreated and ended just modestly higher.Japanese stocks rebounded.
We went down 3/4 point in 10 minutes right before lunch.after lunch we went up 3/4 point in 12 minutes.
bonds prices fell as the stock market regained strength.the market opened here.
bonds prices fell.the stock market regained strength.
bonds prices fell.the stock market regained strength.
Industrial production is expected to have declined 0.2%, according to a consensus of economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report..The August trade deficit is expected to have widened to $9.1 billion from $7.58 billion in July.agency supply is expected to weigh heavily on the market today when the Federal Home Loan Bank prices a $2.3 billion offering of one-year, three-year, five-year and 10-year maturities.
Industrial production is expected to have declined 0.2%, according to a consensus of economists surveyed by Dow Jones Capital Markets Report..The August trade deficit is expected to have widened to $9.1 billion from $7.58 billion in July.agency supply is expected to weigh heavily on the market today when the Federal Home Loan Bank prices a $2.3 billion offering of one-year, three-year, five-year and 10-year maturities.
Tomorrow, the Resolution Funding Corp. will provide details of its first bond issue.this week the Tennessee Valley Authority plans to price a $3 billion offering, its first public debt borrowing in 15 years.
Rates are determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value.higher bidding narrows the investor's return while lower bidding widens it.
Thus, higher bidding narrows the investor's return.lower bidding widens it.
The percentage rates are calculated on a 360-day year.the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year.
The 13-week bills mature Jan. 18, 1990.the 26-week bills mature April 19, 1990.
Foreign bonds surged.the dollar weakened against most major currencies.
Foreign bonds surged.the dollar weakened against most major currencies.
Britain's 11 3/4% bond due 2003/2007 ended 1 1/8 higher at 111 19/32 to yield 10.12%.the 11 3/4% notes due 1991 rose 21/32 to 98 26/32 to yield 12.74%.
Mortgage securities gave up most of Friday's gains.active issues ended 24/32 to 30/32 point lower.
morning activity was hectic.prices dropped in response to gains in the stock market and losses in Treasury securities.
morning activity was hectic.prices dropped in response to gains in the stock market and losses in Treasury securities.
morning activity was hectic as prices dropped in response to gains in the stock market and losses in Treasury securities.trading slowed to moderate levels in the afternoon.
Government National Mortgage Association 9% securities for November delivery were quoted late yesterday at 98 4/32, down 30/32 from Friday; 9 1/2% securities were down 27/32 at 100 5/32.10% securities were at 102 2/32, off 24/32.
Late yesterday Ginnie Mae 9% securities were yielding 9.39% to a 12-year average life assumption.the spread above the Treasury 10-year note narrowed 0.01 percentage point to 1.42.
there were some busy dealings in Freddie Mac and Federal National Mortgage Association securities.underwriters from last week's heavy slate of real estate mortgage investment conduit issues moved to gather collateral for new deals.
to where they were.the 190.58-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average Friday prompted a capital markets rally.
Tax-exempts started the session flat to a touch higher on anticipation of further stock market erosion.bond prices rapidly turned south as it became more clear that a repeat of the October 1987 crash wasn't at hand.
but bond prices rapidly turned south.it became more clear that a repeat of the October 1987 crash wasn't at hand.
but bond prices rapidly turned south.it became more clear that a repeat of the October 1987 crash wasn't at hand.
retail investors seemed to be hugging the sidelines.a measure of volatility is wrung out of the market.
New Jersey Turnpike Authority's 7.20% issue of 2018 was off 3/4 at 98 1/2 bid, yielding 7.32%, up 0.07 percentage point from late Friday Florida Board of Education's 7 1/4% issue of 2023 was 5/8 point weaker at 99 1/2 bid..The 7 1/8% issue of Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority of New York, due 2019, was off 5/8 at 98 1/8 bid.Fairfax County, Va., Water Authority's 7 1/4% issue of 2027 was down 3/4 at 99 7/8 bid.
runaway medical costs" have made health insurance "a significant challenge.margins also have been pinched by changes in the mix of life-insurance products consumers now demand.
runaway medical costs" have made health insurance "a significant challenge.and margins have been pinched by changes in the mix of life-insurance products consumers now demand.
The Business Men's Assurance unit represented about $288 million of the company's $488 million in 1988 revenue.the unit's operating income was about $10 million.
Without detailing specific product breakdowns, Nintendo credited its bullish upsurge in sales -- including advanced computer games and television entertainment systems -- to surging "leisure-oriented" sales in foreign markets.Export sales for leisure items alone totaled 184.74 billion yen in the 12 months, up from 106.06 billion in the previous fiscal year.
Export sales for leisure items alone, for instance, totaled 184.74 billion yen in the 12 months, up from 106.06 billion in the previous fiscal year.Domestic leisure sales were lower.
There is no pressing need to sell the unit.we are doing it so we can concentrate on our core business, renting automobiles in the U.S. and abroad.
but we are doing it.we can concentrate on our core business, renting automobiles in the U.S. and abroad.
it is in negotiations to sell "certain facilities to a third party.it needs the extension to try to reach a definitive agreement on the sale.
the sale apparently would satisfy antitrust issues raised by the U.S. Justice Department about U.S. Banknote's offer to buy International Banknote.completed.
U.S. Banknote said "there can be no assurance" a sale agreement would be concluded.It said the tender offer would probably have to be extended further to complete financing arrangements.
he extended his unsolicited tender offer of $32 a share tender offer, or $154.3 million, for Di Giorgio Corp. to Nov. 1.which includes common and preferred stock purchase rights.
you're right.you guessed black-and-white snapshots.
Trendy magazine advertisements feature stark black-and-white photos of Hollywood celebrities pitching jeans, shoes and liquor..Portrait studios accustomed to shooting only in color report a rush to black-and-white portrait orders.black-and-white photography classes are crowded with students.
On Seventh Avenue, designers have been advancing the monochrome look with clothing collections done entirely in black and white.classic black-and-white movies are enjoying a comeback on videocassette tapes.
Until two years ago, sales of black-and-white film had been declining steadily since the 1960s.last year sales increased 5%.
But last year sales increased 5%.they are expected to jump at least that much again this year.
The Rochester, N.Y., photographic giant recently began marketing T-Max 3200, one of the fastest and most sensitive monochrome films.trying to snare a portion of the $2 billion-a-year industry is Agfa Corp., a unit of Bayer AG.
the paper "could have been introduced a long time ago.the market wasn't there then.
Sales of Ilford's four varieties of black-and-white film this year are outpacing growth in the overall market.the company won't say by exactly how much.
We wanted to highlight the individual, not the environment.black and white allows you to do that better than color.
Even food products and automobiles are making the switch.Portrait studios have latched onto the trend.
she spurned a color portrait for black and white.it's more dramatic.
I show it to my friends.they all say 'wow.
she spurned a color portrait for black and white.most consumers aren't plunking black-and-white film into their cameras to take family snapshots.
Black-and-white film costs consumers a little less than color film.processing costs the same.
Black-and-white film costs consumers a little less than color film, and processing costs the same.for photofinishers, developing costs for black-and-white film are higher.
Some companies are starting to tackle that problem.Ilford recently introduced a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs.
Ilford, for example, recently introduced a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs.the company is increasing its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes.
Ilford, for example, recently introduced a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs..Intent on wooing customers, the company is also increasing its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes.Agfa is sponsoring scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges, offering free black-and-white film and paper as prizes.
Similarly, Agfa is sponsoring scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges, offering free black-and-white film and paper as prizes.Kodak is distributing an instructional video to processors on how to develop its monochrome film more efficiently.
The kit was introduced.retailers noticed numerous requests from parents for children's photography equipment.
After years of fading into the background, two-tone photography is coming back.some industry observers believe the resurgence of black and white is only a fad.
But some industry observers believe the resurgence of black and white is only a fad.when Popular Photography, a leading magazine for photographers, selected 15 of the greatest photos ever made for its latest issue celebrating photography's 150th anniversary, all were black and white.
But all were black and white.Popular Photography, a leading magazine for photographers, selected 15 of the greatest photos ever made for its latest issue celebrating photography's 150th anniversary.
McClatchy Newspapers Inc. said improvements in advertising and subscription revenue led to a 21% gain in third-quarter profit to $8.8 million, or 31 cents a share, from $7.2 million, or 25 cents a share.The Sacramento, Calif., company attributed improved performance to a lower effective tax rate and higher interest income.
submitted last Friday.submitted last week.
Those two offers were private.the spokesman refused to identify the bidding companies.
a little-known indicator that has faithfully foreshadowed the economy's ups and downs by exceptionally long lead times points to a sustained rise in overall business activity.Friday's plunging stock market prompted new fears about the economy's prospects.
The barometer, developed by analysts at Columbia University's Center for International Business Cycle Research here, reached a record high of 223.0 in August, the latest month available.the Columbia researchers estimate that it has moved even higher since then.
The latest reading of 223.0 was up from 222.3 in July and 215.3 as recently as March.the Commerce Department's widely followed index of leading indicators, while up in August, has fallen repeatedly since reaching a high early this year.
In contrast, the Commerce Department's widely followed index of leading indicators has fallen repeatedly since reaching a high early this year.up in August.
In contrast, the Commerce Department's widely followed index of leading indicators, while up in August, has fallen repeatedly.reaching a high early this year.
Its ragged behavior through much of 1989 has prompted some forecasters to anticipate the start of a new recession perhaps before year's end.the far stronger showing of the Columbia index "makes a recession any time soon highly unlikely.
The group normally convenes.a change in the economy's general course seems likely.
The group normally convenes.a change in the economy's general course seems likely.
No meeting is scheduled.the expansion shows no sign of going off the tracks.
to signal recessions or recoveries, as the case may be, by substantially greater periods than the Commerce Department's index of leading indicators.The Columbia economists have reconstructed how the long leading index would have behaved, had it existed, in 1929, before the stock market crash in October that ushered in the Great Depression..The indicator reached a peak in January 1929 and then fell steadily up to and through the crash.
how the long leading index would have behaved in 1929.the stock market crash in October.
The indicator reached a peak in January 1929.and fell steadily up to and through the crash.
In August, the bond measure was at its highest monthly average since early 1987.It rose last Friday.
It also rose last Friday.the stock market sagged.
It also rose last Friday.the stock market sagged.
which is simply no longer such a good indicator of the economy's long-range prospects.it still is useful for anticipating some short-run twists and turns.
Stocks have become more sensitive to factors not directly tied to the domestic economy.that the rise of such computer-based practices as program trading has diminished the stock market's relevancy to the economic outlook.
The French group has an agreement giving it the right to buy all the shares outstanding.this could be completed within a few months.
American Continental's thrift unit, Los Angeles-based Lincoln Savings & Loan Association, is in receivership.the parent company has filed for protection from creditor lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.
Moody's Investors Service Inc. downgraded its ratings on the subordinated debt of CenTrust to Caa from B-3.The rating agency reduced the ratings for long-term deposits to B-3 from Ba-3 and for preferred stock to Ca from Caa.
The downgrades were prompted, Moody's said, by the continuing turmoil in the junk bond market and the suspension of dividends on CenTrust's preferred stock.Moody's said it believed the proposed sale of 63 CenTrust branches to Great Western Bank could, if completed, endanger the thrift's funding and market position.
the proposed sale of 63 CenTrust branches to Great Western Bank could endanger the thrift's funding and market position.completed.
THE STOCK MARKET AVOIDED a repeat of Black Monday.prices recovered from an early slide.
THE STOCK MARKET AVOIDED a repeat of Black Monday.prices recovered from an early slide.
The Dow Jones industrials closed up 88.12 points, at 2657.38, the fourth-biggest gain ever.being down as much as 63.52 points in the morning.
The rally erased about half of Friday's 190.58-point plunge.analysts are cautious about the market's outlook.
The Dow Jones industrials closed up 88.12 points, at 2657.38, the fourth-biggest gain ever, after being down as much as 63.52 points in the morning.The dollar rebounded.
The dollar also rebounded.bond prices plummeted and Treasury bill rates soared.
The dollar also rebounded.bond prices plummeted and Treasury bill rates soared.
while bond prices plummeted.Treasury bill rates soared.
The dollar also rebounded.Junk bonds recovered somewhat.
Junk bonds also recovered somewhat.trading remained stalled.
Junk bonds also recovered somewhat.Gold rose.
Tokyo stock prices bounced back in early trading Tuesday following a 1.8% plunge on Monday.The dollar moved higher in Tokyo.
Donald Trump withdrew his $7.54 billion offer for American Air.a UAL group tried to get financing for a lower bid, possibly $250 a share.
Bear Stearns posted a 7.5% gain.PaineWebber had a decline due to a year-ago gain.
Bear Stearns posted a 7.5% gain.PaineWebber had a decline due to a year-ago gain.
the division to add "substantial sales volume.to make a positive contribution to our earnings in 1990 and beyond.
SHV Holdings N.V. of the Netherlands has built up a 6.7% stake in the company.SHV had owned "a little under 5%" of Burmah for about two years.
SHV, which last year merged its North Sea oil and gas operations with those of Calor Group PLC, has been pegged by speculators as a possible suitor for Burmah Oil in recent weeks.SHV owns 40% of Calor.
Terms weren't disclosed.a J.P. Industries spokesman said the amount J.P. Industries will get for the group is "a little better than expected by the marketplace.
the amount J.P. Industries will get for the group is "a little better than expected by the marketplace.the marketplace had been expecting $25 million to $30 million.
The company said the $3.1 million reserve was created to reflect doubt about the collectability of receivables owed to National Heritage by some of the real estate partnerships it manages.The company said expenses incurred by the previous board and management in the recent contest for control were recognized primarily in the first quarter ended Sept. 30.
The Stanley affair doesn't bode well for the future of democracy or freedom of anything in Namibia.SWAPO starts running the government.
SWAPO has enjoyed favorable Western media treatment.the U.N. General Assembly declared it the "sole, authentic representative" of Namibia's people in.
that Mr. O'Linn was openly sympathetic to SWAPO.and had defended its leaders in court.
Mr. O'Linn had criminal charges brought against their editors, publisher and lawyer.Mr. Stanley's article was published in two Namibian newspapers.
Mr. Stanley was arrested and charged along with the others.he returned to Namibia this month.
of arranging peace settlements.and washing its hands over the tragic results.
that Mr. Stanley and his fellow defendants be released.that the United Nation's monitors make certain that Mr. O'Linn's commission investigates election complaints from all sides.
Yesterday, the stock market's influence at first created nervousness.however, it became more of an undercurrent than a dominating force.
Yesterday, the stock market's influence at first created nervousness.Later it became more of an undercurrent than a dominating force.
Later, however, it became more of an undercurrent than a dominating force.individual markets reacted more to their own factors.
Later, however, it became more of an undercurrent than a dominating force.individual markets reacted more to their own factors.
rising early in the day.the currency fell.
rising early in the day as the currency fell.and giving up some of its gains as the dollar recovered.
and then giving up some of its gains.the dollar recovered.
Copper fell and showed little rebound through the day.one of the major supply problems that had been supporting prices appeared to be solved.
Crude oil declined early.as the stock market retained early gains, it, too, became stronger, ending with a small net loss.
but it, too, became stronger.the stock market retained early gains.
In Chicago, grain and soybean prices rose slightly.Livestock and meat prices dropped on concern that a financial crisis would cut consumption of beef and pork.
Futures prices were moderately higher.gold gave up some of its early gains and platinum behaved independently.
as gold gave up some of its early gains.platinum behaved independently.
first falling.and later rising.
first falling.and then rising.
The more active December delivery gold settled with a gain of $3.90 an ounce at $371.20.trading as high as $374.
easing early on concern over a possible weaker economy.but recovering as the stock market strengthened.
but recovering later.the stock market strengthened.
For one thing, last Friday, precious metals markets closed.the stock market went into its late-in-the-day nose dive.
For one thing, last Friday, precious metals markets closed before the stock market went into its late-in-the-day nose dive.it couldn't react to it.
Back on Friday, Oct. 16, l987, the stock market declined during the day.gold prices surged as the stock market fell.
and gold prices surged.the stock market fell.
and gold prices surged.the stock market fell.
The October 1987 contract that day rose as much as $8.70 to as high as $471.60.the more deferred positions, due to mature as late as March 1989, rose as much as $9.60.
On Black Monday, Oct. 19, 1987, the October contract tacked on further gains, rising to as high as $491.50 for a gain of almost $20 on top of the Friday advances.giving up almost $10 of that at the close.
There's a good chance that gold will retain its gains and rise further He expects a drop in interest rates, which would help gold by keeping the dollar from rising.according to Mr. Cardillo, the impact of the strong dollar should be reflected in reduced exports in the August merchandise trade deficit, when the figures are released today..This would be damaging to the dollar and supportive for gold.
Finally, according to Mr. Cardillo, the impact of the strong dollar should be reflected in reduced exports in the August merchandise trade deficit.the figures are released today.
Some analysts said crude was due for a correction anyhow, following several days of significant gains.most market observers agreed that Friday's stock market drop is what dampened spirits in the petroleum pits yesterday.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries increased its production ceiling for the fourth quarter based on projections of robust demand.any bearish indicator, such as Friday's precipitous drop in the stock market, sends shivers through the oil markets as well.
that Friday's stock market drop is what dampened spirits in the petroleum pits yesterday.after reacting early in the trading day to Friday's plummet, futures prices firmed up again as traders took note of the stock market's partial recovery yesterday.
Indeed futures prices firmed up again.reacting early in the trading day to Friday's plummet.
Indeed futures prices firmed up again.traders took note of the stock market's partial recovery yesterday.
Indeed futures prices firmed up again.traders took note of the stock market's partial recovery yesterday.
Futures prices fell and showed little rebound.one major labor problem that had been underpinning prices appeared to be solved.
that a drop in the stock market might create a weakened economy and a consequent reduction in copper use.the recovery in the stock market provided little help for copper as word spread that a three-month strike at the Highland Valley mine in British Columbia was about over, according to an analyst.
But the recovery in the stock market provided little help for copper.word spread that a three-month strike at the Highland Valley mine in British Columbia was about over, according to an analyst.
But the recovery in the stock market provided little help for copper.word spread that a three-month strike at the Highland Valley mine in British Columbia was about over, according to an analyst.
which recently began seeking copper elsewhere.its inventories shrank.
which recently began seeking copper elsewhere.its inventories shrank.
The LME stocks decline was about as expected.the Comex gain wasn't.
but the Comex gain wasn't.this was brushed aside by concern over the stock market.
At one point in futures trading the December contract rose to as high as $1.2965.the stock market firmed.
At one point in futures trading, as the stock market firmed, the December contract rose to as high as $1.2965.it wasn't able to sustain the gain.
Prices rose sharply Friday.the storm approached Texas and Louisiana.
Prices rose sharply Friday.the storm approached Texas and Louisiana.
Prices rose sharply Friday as the storm approached Texas and Louisiana.after absorbing the potential effect of the hurricane, prices began to slip late Friday.
However prices began to slip late Friday.absorbing the potential effect of the hurricane.
At one point in early trading the March price rose to as high as 14.22 cents.the stock market recovered.
At one point in early trading the March price rose to as high as 14.22 cents.the stock market recovered.
At one point in early trading the March price rose to as high as 14.22 cents.the price then fell back.
At one point in early trading the March price rose to as high as 14.22 cents.but the price fell back.
that it could buy at lower prices.there was a severe drop in the stock market and it affected sugar.
that if there was a severe drop in the stock market.it affected sugar.
At any rate India needs the sugar.it will be in sooner or later to buy it.
The prices of cattle and hog futures contracts dropped sharply.traders speculated that the stock market plunge Friday will linger in the minds of U.S. consumers long enough to prompt them to rein in their spending at the supermarket.
A broad rally began.several major processors began buying futures contracts.
the confusion was caused.James Batten, Knight-Ridder's chairman and chief executive, told New York analysts two weeks ago that Knight-Ridder's earnings per share for the first nine months of 1989 would "be behind a little bit" from like period of.
to keep their offer open until Nov. 1.not to acquire any additional shares except through a tender offer expiring on that date.
that it already owns 15% of the common shares of the doughnut shop chain.that as of the close of business Friday an additional 11% had been tendered to its offer.
Herbert M. Sandler, chairman and chief executive officer of the Oakland, Calif., savings-and-loan holding company, credited the high number of loans added to the company's portfolio over the last 12 months for broadening its earning asset base and improving profit performance.the executive noted that slackening demand for new mortgages depressed new loan originations to $1 billion, 30% below the same period last year.
CFCs are widely used as solvents, coolants and fire suppressants.their use has been linked to a potentially dangerous depletion of the Earth's ozone layer, and a number of companies are seeking to curtail use, or at least emission, of the substance.
But their use has been linked to a potentially dangerous depletion of the Earth's ozone layer.a number of companies are seeking to curtail use, or at least emission, of the substance.
But their use has been linked to a potentially dangerous depletion of the Earth's ozone layer.a number of companies are seeking to curtail use, or at least emission, of the substance.
it didn't run a production test on the three discovery wells it drilled in the field.the wells are similar to others drilled at its Intan and Widuri fields.
it didn't run a production test on the three discovery wells it drilled in the field.it believes the reserves in the field are about 10 million barrels of oil.
The Intan Field has estimated reserves of 50 million barrels.the Widuri Field has estimated reserves of 225 million barrels.
it is restating its results to reduce its reported net income for the first nine months of its fiscal year.discovering it took tax credits that already had been taken last year.
that for financial reporting purposes last year it took tax credits that will be recognized for tax purposes this year.because of confusion, it took those credits again in reporting its results through the first nine months.
the agreement calls for it to make a $20-a-share cash tender offer for all shares outstanding of ISI.Charles Johnston, ISI chairman and president, agreed to sell his 60% stake in ISI to Memotec upon completion of the tender offer for a combination of cash, Memotec stock and debentures.
it can withdraw from the merger agreement with Memotec.a better bid surfaces.
Terms of the agreement weren't disclosed.for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1988, the most recent period for which results were broken out, the Perkin-Elmer unit accounted for more than half the $145 million in sales recorded by the company's government systems sector.
In addition to making electro-optical systems.the unit makes laser warning receivers.
The Communications Workers of America ratified a new regional contract and all but one of the local agreements with Bell Atlantic Corp.CWA and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers members remain on strike against Nynex Corp., the New York-based regional phone company.
The Communications Workers of America ratified a new regional contract and all but one of the local agreements with Bell Atlantic Corp.CWA and International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers members remain on strike against Nynex Corp., the New York-based regional phone company.
The CWA represents 40,000 Nynex workers.the IBEW represents 20,000 workers.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average jumped sharply yesterday to close at 2657.38, panic didn't sweep the world's markets.investors large and small seemed to accept Friday's dizzying 190-point plunge as a sharp correction, not a calamity.
he smiled broadly, brandished his unlit cigar and slapped Stanley Shopkorn, his top stock trader, on the back.the rally gained strength at 3:15 p.m.
he smiled broadly, brandished his unlit cigar and slapped Stanley Shopkorn, his top stock trader, on the back.the rally gained strength at 3:15 p.m.
stocks of many of the nation's biggest companies couldn't open for trading.trading opened yesterday morning on the Big Board.
stocks of many of the nation's biggest companies couldn't open for trading.a wave of sell orders was overwhelming buyers.
By 10:10, the Dow Industrials were off 63.52 points.the stock of UAL Corp. still hadn't opened.
By 10:10, the Dow Industrials were off 63.52 points.then, as quickly as the Dow had fallen, it began to turn around.
By 10:10, the Dow Industrials were off 63.52 points, and the stock of UAL Corp. still hadn't opened.But as quickly as the Dow had fallen, it began to turn around.
By the market's close, volume on the New York exchange totaled more than 416 million, the fourth highest on record.the rally was largely confined to the blue-chip stocks.
Overall, more Big Board stocks lost money than gained.many arbitragers were further hurt yesterday when a proposed takeover of AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines, collapsed.
And many arbitragers were further hurt yesterday when a proposed takeover of AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines, collapsed.the Dow Jones Transportation Average plunged 102.06 points, its second-worst drop in history.
In London, a midday rally left the market's major index off 3.2%.Tokyo's leading stock index fell only 1.8% in surprisingly lackluster trading.
In London, a midday rally left the market's major index off 3.2%.Tokyo's leading stock index fell only 1.8% in surprisingly lackluster trading.
Other, more thinly traded Asian markets were hit harder than Tokyo's.there were no free-fall declines.
The dollar bounced back strongly to 141.8.falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen.
The dollar, after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen, bounced back strongly to 141.8.easing fears that foreigners would unload U.S. stocks.
The Federal Reserve signaled its willingness to provide liquidity; the interest rate on its loans to major banks inched downward early in the day..Foreign stock markets, which kicked off Black Monday with a huge selling spree, began the day off by relatively modest amounts..The dollar, after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen, bounced back strongly to 141.8, thus easing fears that foreigners would unload U.S. stocks.the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that a crash wasn't in store also helped calm investors.
thus easing fears that foreigners would unload U.S. stocks.And the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that a crash wasn't in store helped calm investors.
And the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that a crash wasn't in store also helped calm investors.Many major institutions came into work yesterday ready to buy some of the blue chips they felt had been sharply undervalued on Friday.
And the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that a crash wasn't in store also helped calm investors.amid all the backslapping and signs of relief over yesterday's events, some market professionals cautioned that there is nothing present in the current market system to prevent another dizzying drop such as Friday's.
Computers have increasingly connected securities markets world-wide.a buying or selling wave in one market is often passed around the globe.
so that a buying or selling wave in one market is often passed around the globe.investors everywhere nervously eyed yesterday's opening in Tokyo, where the Nikkei average of 225 blue-chip stocks got off to a rocky start.
The average plunged some 600 points, or 1.7%, in the first 20 minutes of trading.the selling wave had no conviction.
But the selling wave had no conviction.the market first surged upward by 200 points, then drifted lower, closing down 647.
and the market first surged upward by 200 points.drifted lower.
Frankfurt's opening was delayed a half hour because of a crush of sell orders.In London, the view from the trading floor of an American securities firm, Jefferies & Co was troubling.
A computer screen displaying 100 blue-chip stocks colors each one red.its price is falling.
I see concern.I don't see panic.
stocks fell sharply.trading opened in New York at 9:30 a.m. EDT.
Ten minutes later, the Dow hit bottom-down 63.52 points, another 2.5%.shortly before then they sensed a turn.
But some of Wall Street's sharpest traders say, they sensed a turn.then.
Stock traders were buoyed.an upturn in the MMI had also started the recovery in stocks on the Tuesday following Black Monday.
Shortly after 10 a.m., the Major Market Index, a Chicago Board of Trade futures contract of 20 stocks designed to mimic the DJIA, exploded upward.because an upturn in the MMI had started the recovery in stocks on the Tuesday following Black Monday.
Traders shouted out.their Reuters, Quotron and Telerate screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on Wall Street.
Traders shouted out.their Reuters, Quotron and Telerate screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on Wall Street.
as their Reuters, Quotron and Telerate screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on Wall Street.nine minutes later, Wall Street suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day.
Then, nine minutes later, Wall Street suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day.corporations with share buy-back programs kicked into high gear, triggering gains in, among other issues, Alcan Aluminium and McDonald's.
Walt Disney Co. opened yesterday late at 114.5, down 8.5.then it suddenly burst upward 7.5 as Goldman, Sachs & Co. stepped in and bought almost every share offer.
Walt Disney Co. opened yesterday late at 114.5, down 8.5.But it suddenly burst upward 7.5.
But then it suddenly burst upward 7.5.Goldman, Sachs & Co. stepped in and bought almost every share offer.
We turned the trading system on.it did whatever it was programmed to do.
We turned the trading system on.it did whatever it was programmed to do.
The carnage on the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the nation's major options market, was heavy.the trading in S&P 100 stock-index options was halted Friday.
Many market makers in the S&P 100 index options contract had bullish positions Friday.when the shutdown came they were frozen with huge losses.
and they were frozen with huge losses.the shutdown came.
Not everybody was making money.a test of the stock market's rally came at about 2 p.m., with the Dow at 2600, up 31 points on the day.
bargain hunting had explained the Dow's strength up to that point.that many market professionals were anticipating a drop in the Dow.
and that many market professionals were anticipating a drop in the Dow.the announcement that real estate magnate and sometime raider Donald Trump was withdrawing his offer for AMR Corp. might have been expected to rattle traders.
Moreover, the announcement that real estate magnate and sometime raider Donald Trump was withdrawing his offer for AMR Corp. might have been expected to rattle traders.the rally only paused for about 25 minutes and then steamed forward as institutions resumed buying.
Instead, the rally only paused for about 25 minutes.and steamed forward as institutions resumed buying.
and then steamed forward.institutions resumed buying.
and then steamed forward.institutions resumed buying.
The market closed.reaching its high for the day of.
Across the country, many people took yesterday's events in stride.remaining generally uneasy about the stock market in general.
Across the country, many people took yesterday's events in stride.remaining generally uneasy about the stock market in general.
he remains uneasy.Mayor Norman found the market's performance Monday reassuring.
it might be that it puts some of these LBOs on the skids.anything good comes out of this.
You're on a roller coaster.that may last.
it signed a definitive merger agreement for a National Pizza Corp. unit to acquire the 90.6% of Skipper's Inc. it doesn't own for $11.50 a share, or about $28.1 million.Skipper's turned down a $10-a-share proposal from National Pizza.
it settled its dispute with Pizza Hut, allowing it to make the purchase.Skipper's results began to turn around, permitting a higher offer.
EAST GERMANS RALLIED.officials reportedly sought Honecker's ouster.
In what was considered the largest protest in the Communist state's 40-year history, at least 120,000 demonstrators marched through the southern city of Leipzig to press demands for democratic freedoms.that regional Communist officials demanded the dismissal of hard-line leader Honecker.
In what was considered the largest protest in the Communist state's 40-year history, at least 120,000 demonstrators marched through the southern city of Leipzig to press demands for democratic freedoms.that regional Communist officials demanded the dismissal of hard-line leader Honecker.
Meanwhile a West German newspaper reported that regional Communist officials demanded the dismissal of hard-line leader Honecker.the first of more than 1,300 East Germans trying to flee to the West through Poland renounced their citizenship.
NASA resumed the countdown for today's launch of the space shuttle Atlantis.a federal appeals court in Washington dismissed a lawsuit by anti-nuclear groups to delay the flight because the plutonium-powered Galileo space probe was aboard.
to delay the flight.the plutonium-powered Galileo space probe was aboard.
scientists have said transplanting such tissue could be effective in treating diabetes.anti-abortion groups are opposed to such research.
Delegates from 91 nations endorsed a ban on world ivory trade in an attempt to rescue the endangered elephant from extinction.Five African nations said they would continue selling the valuable tusks.
Seoul and Pyongyang reached a tentative agreement to allow visits between families on the divided Korean peninsula.Differences remained between the North and South Korean governments over conditions for the exchanges.
Norway's King Olav V installed a three-party non-Socialist government.Gro Harlem Brundtland's three-year-old Labor regime relinquished power.
Norway's King Olav V installed a three-party non-Socialist government.Gro Harlem Brundtland's three-year-old Labor regime relinquished power.
The State Department said there was a "possibility" that some Nicaraguan rebels were selling their U.S.-supplied arms to Salvadoran guerrillas, but insisted it wasn't an organized effort.Secretary of State Baker complained about a U.N. aide who last week told the Contras to disband as part of a regional peace accord.
it was considering the sale of Cluett, a leading shirt maker and one of West Point-Pepperell's biggest units.completing the $1.56 billion acquisition of West Point-Pepperell Inc. in April.
Mr. Farley followed a similar pattern.he acquired Northwest Industries Inc. and then sold much of its assets.
when he acquired Northwest Industries Inc.and sold much of its assets.
and then sold much of its assets.he kept Fruit of the Loom Inc., the underwear maker that he still controls.
Cluett was an independent company.West Point-Pepperell acquired it for $375 million in cash and stock in 1986.
Mr. Fromstein disclosed the planned steps, expected within a few months.Blue Arrow posted a 2.5% drop in its third-quarter pretax earnings.
and give it a more American image.U.S. investors turn jittery about foreign stocks after Friday's market plunge.
and give it a more American image.U.S. investors turn jittery about foreign stocks after Friday's market plunge.
The name change and good will write-off could help solidify Blue Arrow's dominance of the U.S. temporary-help market and give it a more American image as U.S. investors turn jittery about foreign stocks after Friday's market plunge.The moves could erase shareholders' perception of Blue Arrow as a company in turmoil.
In a widely publicized boardroom coup, Mr. Fromstein ousted Antony Berry as Blue Arrow chief executive in January.Mr. Berry had forced Mr. Fromstein out as the $1 million-a-year chief of Milwaukee-based Manpower.
The moves also could erase shareholders' perception of Blue Arrow as a company in turmoil.the Blue Arrow tumult isn't over yet.
But the Blue Arrow tumult isn't over yet.the British government is investigating a disputed #25 million ($39.4 million) loan.
Blue Arrow was able to pull off the $1.34 billion takeover of Manpower in 1987.different British and American accounting standards produce higher reported earnings for British companies.
Under British rules, Blue Arrow was able to write off at once the $1.15 billion in good will arising from the purchase..As a U.S.-based company, Blue Arrow would have to amortize the good will over as many as 40 years.with so many shares now held in the U.S., Blue Arrow reports its earnings two ways, based on both U.K. and U.S. accounting standards.
The British version shows "a handful of pounds of net worth" following the 1987 write-off of good will.the American version reflects "$1 billion of net worth because almost none of {the good will} has been written off.
while the American version reflects "$1 billion of net worth.almost none of {the good will} has been written off.
The number of U.S. temporary workers fell about 1% in the 12 months ending Aug. 31.sliding nearly 3.5% in July.
Blue Arrow blamed the pretax profit drop in the quarter ended July 31 partly on slower earnings growth of non-Manpower units in Britain.pretax profit slid to #18.49 million in the quarter from #18.98 million a year earlier.
The 45-year-old former General Electric Co. executive figures it will be easier this time.analysts say Applied's chief executive faces a tough challenge in integrating the two companies.
But analysts say Applied's chief executive faces a tough challenge in integrating the two companies.applauding the acquisition.
The Watertown, Mass., company's sales have been dormant.its profits have dropped.
Mr. Sim must pare its costs and product line.spurring Barry Wright's sales.
The Butler, Wis., manufacturer went public at $15.75 a share in August 1987.Mr. Sim's goal then was a $29 per-share price by 1992.
The stock has since softened, trading around $25 a share last week and closing yesterday at $23.00 in national over-the-counter trading.Mr. Sim has set a fresh target of $50 a share by the end of.
he faced.he joined Applied as president and chief operating officer in 1985.
it "wasn't growing and wasn't providing a satisfactory return on invested capital.profitable.
Mr. Sim is confident that the drive to dominate certain niche markets will work at Barry Wright as it has at Applied.He professes an "evangelical" fervor to develop a corporate culture that rewards managers who produce and where decision-making is shared.
that rewards managers who produce.where decision-making is shared.
it will be easier to turn Barry Wright around.he's now in the driver's seat.
I didn't have the power to execute as I do today.he came to Applied.
No, it wasn't Black Monday.while the New York Stock Exchange didn't fall apart Friday as the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour -- it barely managed to stay this side of chaos.
But it barely managed to stay this side of chaos.the New York Stock Exchange didn't fall apart Friday.
while the New York Stock Exchange didn't fall apart Friday.the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour.
even central banks can't stop it.the dollar is in a free-fall.
Many money managers and some traders had already left their offices early Friday afternoon on a warm autumn day.the stock market was so quiet.
Many money managers and some traders had already left their offices early Friday afternoon on a warm autumn day.in a lightning plunge, the Dow Jones industrials in barely an hour surrendered about a third of their gains this year, chalking up a 190.58-point, or 6.9%, loss on the day in gargantuan trading volume.
The Dow's decline was second in point terms only to the 508-point Black Monday crash that occurred Oct. 19, 1987.In percentage terms the Dow's dive was the 12th-worst ever and the sharpest since the market fell 156.83, or 8%, a week after Black Monday.
that a takeover would succeed.UAL stock would rise.
that a takeover would succeed.UAL stock would rise.
On the exchange floor we braced for a panic.UAL stopped trading.
Several traders could be seen shaking their heads.the news flashed.
For weeks, the market had been nervous about takeovers.Campeau Corp. 's cash crunch spurred concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers.
For weeks, the market had been nervous about takeovers, after Campeau Corp. 's cash crunch spurred concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers.10 minutes after the UAL trading halt came news that the UAL group couldn't get financing for its bid.
For weeks, the market had been nervous about takeovers, after Campeau Corp. 's cash crunch spurred concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers.10 minutes after the UAL trading halt came news that the UAL group couldn't get financing for its bid.
Arbitragers couldn't dump their UAL stock.they rid themselves of nearly every "rumor" stock they had.
but they rid themselves of nearly every "rumor" stock they had.their selling caused trading halts to be declared in USAir Group, which closed down 3 7/8 to 41 1/2, Delta Air Lines, which fell 7 3/4 to 69 1/4, and Philips Industries, which sank 3 to 21 1/2.
These stocks eventually reopened.as panic spread, speculators began to sell blue-chip stocks such as Philip Morris and International Business Machines to offset their losses.
But speculators began to sell blue-chip stocks such as Philip Morris and International Business Machines.panic spread.
the stock was trading at 41, down 3 3/8, while IBM closed 5 5/8 lower at 102.trading was halted in Philip Morris.
the stock was trading at 41, down 3 3/8.IBM closed 5 5/8 lower at 102.
which are triggered by computer.prices fall to certain levels.
which are triggered by computer.prices fall to certain levels.
Most of the stock selling pressure came from Wall Street professionals, including computer-guided program traders.most of their major institutional investors sat tight.
Now, at 3:07, one of the market's post-crash "reforms" took hold.the S&P 500 futures contract had plunged 12 points, equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the Dow industrials.
Now, at 3:07, one of the market's post-crash "reforms" took hold.the S&P 500 futures contract had plunged 12 points, equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the Dow industrials.
After the trading halt in the S&P 500 pit in Chicago, waves of selling continued to hit stocks themselves on the Big Board.specialists continued to notch prices down.
After the trading halt in the S&P 500 pit in Chicago, waves of selling continued to hit stocks themselves on the Big Board, and specialists continued to notch prices down.the link between the futures and stock markets ripped apart.
it cracked every model we had for the marketplace.the airline information came through.
This confusion effectively halted one form of program trading, stock index arbitrage, that closely links the futures and stock markets, and has been blamed by some for the market's big swings.stocks kept falling.
The Dow industrials were down 55 points at 3 p.m. before the futures-trading halt..At 3:30 p.m., at the end of the "cooling off" period, the average was down 114.76 points.during the the S&P trading halt, S&P futures sell orders began piling up, while stocks in New York kept falling sharply.
Meanwhile, during the the S&P trading halt, S&P futures sell orders began piling up.stocks in New York kept falling sharply.
Mr..Phelan was flying to Bangkok.the market was falling.
At about 3:30 p.m. EDT, S&P futures resumed trading.for a brief time the futures and stock markets started to come back in line.
At about 3:30 p.m. EDT, S&P futures resumed trading.for a brief time the futures and stock markets started to come back in line.
and for a brief time the futures and stock markets started to come back in line.the build-up of S&P futures sell orders weighed on the market, and the link with stocks began to fray again.
But the build-up of S&P futures sell orders weighed on the market.the link with stocks began to fray again.
But the build-up of S&P futures sell orders weighed on the market.the link with stocks began to fray again.
At about 3:45, the S&P market careened to still another limit, of 30 points down.trading was locked again.
At about 3:45, the S&P market careened to still another limit, of 30 points down.trading was locked again.
that "there are significant differences between the current environment and that of October 1987.that there are still "attractive investment opportunities" in the stock market.
that "there are significant differences between the current environment and that of October 1987" and that there are still "attractive investment opportunities" in the stock market.that Friday's plunge is "going to set back" relations with customers.
that Friday's plunge is "going to set back" relations with customers.it reinforces the concern of volatility.
that Friday's plunge is "going to set back" relations with customers, "because it reinforces the concern of volatility.a lot of people will harp on program trading.
the S&P pit stayed locked at its 30-point trading limit.the Dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss Friday.
the S&P pit stayed locked at its 30-point trading limit.the Dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss Friday.
2,000 S&P contracts were for sale on the close, the equivalent of $330 million in stock.there were no buyers.
it left the market vulnerable to continued selling this morning.Friday's debacle involved mainly professional traders rather than investors.
by buying futures.futures prices fall.
by buying futures when futures prices fall.and sell off stocks.
At those levels, stocks are set up to be hammered by index arbitragers.nobody knows at what level the futures and stocks will open today.
Our systemic performance was good.the exchange will "look at the performance of all specialists in all stocks.
But the exchange will "look at the performance of all specialists in all stocks.specialists complain privately that just as in the 1987 crash, the "upstairs" firms -- big investment banks that support the market by trading big blocks of stock -- stayed on the sidelines during Friday's blood-letting.
It's a few hundred years.England has been a kingdom.
Ports of Call Inc. reached agreements to sell its remaining seven aircraft to buyers that weren't disclosed.the company announced it would sell its aging fleet of Boeing Co. 707s because of increasing maintenance costs.
The assets are good.they require more money and management" than can be provided in L.J. Hooker's current situation.
that he has not yet seen the bid.that he would review it and bring it to the attention of the creditors committee.
Eventually Mr. Simpson and Mr. Herscu had a falling out over the direction of the company.he resigned in 1988.
Since then, Hooker Corp. has sold its interest in the Parisian chain back to Parisian's management and is currently attempting to sell the B. Altman & Co. chain.Robert Sakowitz, chief executive of the Sakowitz chain, is seeking funds to buy out the Hooker interest in his company.
These aren't mature assets.they have the potential to be so.
big fund managers said they have a strong defense against any wave of withdrawals: cash.small investors peppered their mutual funds with phone calls over the weekend.
Unlike the weekend before Black Monday, the funds weren't swamped with heavy withdrawal requests.many fund managers have built up cash levels and say they will be buying stock this week.
And many fund managers have built up cash levels.they will be buying stock this week.
At Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest fund company, telephone volume was up sharply.it was still at just half the level of the weekend preceding Black Monday in 1987.
Some shareholders have held off until today.any fund exchanges made after Friday's close would take place at today's closing prices.
The test may come today.they're ready.
Many have raised cash levels, which act as a buffer against steep market declines.Mario Gabelli holds cash positions well above 20% in several of his funds.
Not all funds have raised cash levels, of course.persistent redemptions would force some fund managers to dump stocks to raise cash.
Also, persistent redemptions would force some fund managers to dump stocks to raise cash.a strong level of investor withdrawals is much more unlikely this time around.
Stock-fund sales have rebounded in recent months.monthly net purchases are still running at less than half 1987 levels.
Vincent Bajakian, manager of the $1.8 billion Wellington Fund, added to his positions in Bristol-Myers Squibb, Woolworth and Dun & Bradstreet Friday.today he'll be looking to buy drug stocks like Eli Lilly, Pfizer and American Home Products whose dividend yields have been bolstered by stock declines.
Fidelity's Mr. Lynch, for his part, snapped up Southern Co. shares Friday.the stock got hammered.
he'll be buying blue chips such as Bristol-Myers and Kellogg.the market drops further today.
it presents an opportunity that is "the kind of thing you dream about.they croak stocks like that.
it presents an opportunity that is "the kind of thing you dream about.they croak stocks like that.
phone calls were arriving at twice the normal weekend pace yesterday.most investors were seeking share prices and other information.
But most investors were seeking share prices and other information..Trading volume was only modestly higher than normal.fund groups aren't taking any chances.
Fidelity on Saturday opened its 54 walk-in investor centers across the country..The centers normally are closed through the weekend.East Coast centers will open at 7:30 EDT this morning, instead of the normal 8:30.
that some investors moved money from stock funds to money-market funds.most investors seemed to be "in an information mode rather than in a transaction mode.
T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. increased its staff of phone representatives to handle investor requests.it was adding more phone representatives today to help investors get through.
Several fund managers expect a rough market this morning.prices stabilize.
Elaine Garzarelli predicts the market will open down at least 50 points on technical factors and "some panic selling.she expects prices to rebound soon.
But she expects prices to rebound soon.she expects the stock market won't decline more than 10% to 15% from recent highs.
But she expects prices to rebound soon and is telling investors she expects the stock market won't decline more than 10% to 15% from recent highs.she was swamped with phone calls over the weekend from nervous shareholders.
and want to sell.I'm trying to talk them out of it.
I'd really be upset.they all were bullish.
Two years ago, unlike today, the dollar was weak, interest rates were rising.the market was very overvalued.
Ripples from the strike by 55,000 Machinists union members against Boeing Co. reached air carriers Friday.America West Airlines announced it will postpone its new service out of Houston because of delays in receiving aircraft from the Seattle jet maker.
that the work stoppage at Boeing, now entering its 13th day, "has caused some turmoil in our scheduling.that more than 500 passengers who were booked to fly out of Houston on America West would now be put on other airlines.
that the work stoppage at Boeing, now entering its 13th day, "has caused some turmoil in our scheduling.that more than 500 passengers who were booked to fly out of Houston on America West would now be put on other airlines.
it was supposed to get this Thursday.Boeing is supposed to send to America West another 757 twin-engine aircraft as well as a 737 by year's end.
At this point, no other America West flights -- including its new service at San Antonio, Texas; Newark, N.J.; and Palmdale, Calif. -- have been affected by the delays in Boeing deliveries.the company's reaction underscores the domino effect that a huge manufacturer such as Boeing can have on other parts of the economy.
Nevertheless, the company's reaction underscores the domino effect that a huge manufacturer such as Boeing can have on other parts of the economy.It is sure to help the machinists put added pressure on the company.
At this point, no other America West flights -- including its new service at San Antonio, Texas; Newark, N.J.; and Palmdale, Calif. -- have been affected by the delays in Boeing deliveries.America West is a smaller airline and therefore more affected by the delayed delivery of a single plane than many of its competitors would be.
America West, though, is a smaller airline.and more affected by the delayed delivery of a single plane than many of its competitors would be.
America West, though, is a smaller airline and therefore more affected by the delayed delivery of a single plane than many of its competitors would be.a random check Friday didn't seem to indicate that the strike was having much of an effect on other airline operations.
that the company has been in constant communication with all of its customers.that it was impossible to predict what further disruptions might be triggered by the strike.
In Seattle, a Boeing spokesman explained that the company has been in constant communication with all of its customers and that it was impossible to predict what further disruptions might be triggered by the strike.supervisors and non-striking employees have been trying to finish some 40 aircraft -- mostly 747 and 767 jumbo jets at the company's Everett, Wash., plant -- that were all but completed before the walkout.
As of Friday, four had been delivered.a fifth plane, a 747-400, was supposed to be flown out over the weekend to Air China.
they know what they want.they come back.
who has been in contact with both sides.the strike began.
it actually has risen over the last two weeks on the strength of new orders.Boeing's stock price was battered along with the rest of the market Friday.
that the labor situation will get settled in the short term.that things look very rosy for Boeing in the long term.
The investment community, for one, has been anticipating a speedy resolution.he thinks the earliest a pact could be struck would be the end of this month.
the earliest a pact could be struck would be the end of this month.it's possible that the strike could last considerably longer.
that "to my knowledge, Boeing's offer represents the best overall three-year contract of any major U.S. industrial firm in recent history.Mr. Baker called the letter -- and the company's offer of a 10% wage increase over the life of the pact, plus bonuses -- "very weak.
Talks have broken off between Machinists representatives at Lockheed Corp. and the Calabasas, Calif., aerospace company.The union is continuing to work through its expired contract.
It had planned a strike vote for next Sunday.that has been pushed back indefinitely.
it agreed to extend its contract on a day-by-day basis, with a 10-day notification to cancel.it continues bargaining.
United Auto Workers Local 1069 said it agreed to extend its contract on a day-by-day basis, with a 10-day notification to cancel, while it continues bargaining.Boeing on Friday said it received an order from Martinair Holland for four model 767-300 wide-body jetliners valued at a total of about $326 million.
The projects are big.we wouldn't go into them alone," and Canadian Utilities' equity stake would be small.
But we wouldn't go into them alone.Canadian Utilities' equity stake would be small.
Mr. Richardson wouldn't offer specifics regarding Atco's proposed British project.he said it would compete for customers with two huge British power generating companies that would be formed under the country's plan to privatize its massive water and electric utilities.
There seems to be a move around the world to deregulate the generation of electricity.Canadian Utilities hopes to capitalize on it.
There seems to be a move around the world to deregulate the generation of electricity.Canadian Utilities hopes to capitalize on it.
and Canadian Utilities hopes to capitalize on it.that Canadian Utilities is mulling projects in underdeveloped countries.
adding that Canadian Utilities is also mulling projects in underdeveloped countries.he would be specific.
The land to be purchased by the joint venture hasn't yet received zoning and other approvals required for development.part of Kaufman & Broad's job will be to obtain such approvals.
The land to be purchased by the joint venture hasn't yet received zoning and other approvals required for development.part of Kaufman & Broad's job will be to obtain such approvals.
The partnership runs the risk that it may not get the approvals for development.in return, it can buy land at wholesale rather than retail prices, which can result in sizable savings.
Typically, developers option property.then once they get the administrative approvals, they buy it.
Typically, developers option property.and once they get the administrative approvals, they buy it.
and then they buy it.they get the administrative approvals.
Kaufman & Broad can take the more aggressive approach of buying raw land.avoiding the negative impacts to its own balance sheet.
The company is putting up only 10% of the capital.it is responsible for providing management, planning and processing services to the joint venture.
Quantum Chemical Corp. went along for the ride.the price of plastics took off in 1987.
The timing of Quantum's chief executive officer, John Hoyt Stookey, appeared to be nothing less than inspired.he had just increased Quantum's reliance on plastics.
The company outpaced much of the chemical industry.annual profit grew fivefold in two years.
The company outpaced much of the chemical industry.annual profit grew fivefold in two years.
When the price of plastics took off in 1987, Quantum Chemical Corp. went along for the ride.now prices have nose-dived and Quantum's profit is plummeting.
But now prices have nose-dived.Quantum's profit is plummeting.
But now prices have nose-dived.Quantum's profit is plummeting.
Pricing cycles, to be sure, are nothing new for plastics producers.the financial decline of some looks steep only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them.
Pricing cycles, to be sure, are nothing new for plastics producers.the financial decline of some looks steep only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them.
the company exited the wine and spirits business and plowed more of its resources into plastics.Mr. Stookey took the chief executive's job in 1986.
Mr. Stookey, 59 years old, declined to be interviewed for this article.he has consistently argued that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- Quantum will prosper through its new direction.
Quantum's lot is mostly tied to polyethylene resin.its competitors -- including Dow Chemical Co., Union Carbide Corp. and several oil giants -- have much broader business interests.
But its competitors -- including Dow Chemical Co., Union Carbide Corp. and several oil giants -- have much broader business interests.and are better cushioned against price swings.
Quantum's annual profit fluctuates by about 85 cents a share, provided no other variables are changing.the price of polyethylene moves a mere penny a pound.
In recent months the price of polyethylene, even more than that of other commodity plastics, has taken a dive.the price of ethylene, the chemical building block of polyethylene, hasn't dropped nearly so fast.
That discrepancy hurts Quantum badly.its own plants cover only about half of its ethylene needs.
China abruptly halted them.other buyers bet that prices had peaked.
other buyers then bet that prices had peaked.and began to draw down inventories rather than order new product.
how much inventories had swelled throughout the distribution chain.prices spiraled up.
how much inventories had swelled throughout the distribution chain.prices spiraled up.
They recently announced increases of a few cents a pound.No one knows whether the new posted prices will stick once producers and customers start to haggle.
whether the new posted prices will stick.producers and customers start to haggle.
A quick turnaround is crucial to Quantum.its cash requirements remain heavy.
Quantum described the payout at the time as a way for it to share the bonanza with its holders.its stock price wasn't reflecting the huge profit increases.
for it to share the bonanza with its holders.to dispel takeover speculation.
Whether a cash crunch might eventually force the company to cut its quarterly dividend has become a topic of intense speculation on Wall Street.Mr. Stookey deflected dividend questions in a Sept. 29 meeting with analysts.
Whether a cash crunch might eventually force the company to cut its quarterly dividend has become a topic of intense speculation on Wall Street.Mr. Stookey deflected dividend questions in a Sept. 29 meeting with analysts.
Some viewed his response as nothing more than the standard line from executives.others came away thinking he had given something less than his usual straight-from-the-shoulder performance.
the company progressed in September to within 12 hours of completing the drawn-out process of restarting it.an explosion idled the plant in June.
the company progressed in September to within 12 hours of completing the drawn-out process of restarting it.a second explosion occurred.
Two workers died.six remain in the hospital.
calculating lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance is straightforward.a plant has just been running flat out to meet demand.
calculating lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance is straightforward.a plant has just been running flat out to meet demand.
When a plant has just been running flat out to meet demand, calculating lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance is straightforward.the numbers become trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer -- when demand is shifting.
But the numbers become trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer.demand is shifting.
You say you could have sold X percent of this product and Y percent of that.then you still have to negotiate.
You say you could have sold X percent of this product and Y percent of that.And you still have to negotiate.
The plant expansion should strengthen the company's sway in the polyethylene business.the expansion will lower the company's raw material costs.
the expansion will also lower the company's raw material costs.Quantum is tightening its grip on its one large business outside chemicals, propane marketing.
Not everything looks grim for Quantum.Quantum has a crisis to get past right now.
We pretty much have a policy of not commenting on rumors.that falls in that category.
RJR Nabisco Inc. is disbanding its division responsible for buying network advertising time.moving 11 of the group's 14 employees to New York from Atlanta.
the broadcast unit will be disbanded Dec. 1.the move won't affect RJR's print, radio and spot-television buying practices.
RJR moved 11 employees of the group back to New York in September.there was supposed to be a future.
the company moved the 11 employees to New York last month.the group had then been in the midst of purchasing ad time for the networks' upcoming season.
The U.S. is allocating a larger share of its steel market to developing and newly industrialized countries which have relatively unsubsidized steel industries.the U.S. has negotiated a significant cut in Japan's steel quota, and made only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the European Community.
The U.S. is allocating a larger share of its steel market to developing and newly industrialized countries which have relatively unsubsidized steel industries.the U.S. has negotiated a significant cut in Japan's steel quota, and made only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the European Community.
with the difference supplied mainly by Canada -- which isn't included in the quota program.Other countries that don't have formal steel quotas with the U.S., such as Taiwan, Sweden and Argentina have supplied steel.
it would extend steel quotas, known as voluntary restraint agreements, until March 31, 1992.it would use that two-and-a-half year period to work toward an international consensus on freeing up the international steel trade.
That increase rises to slightly more than 2% of the U.S. market.a joint Korean-U.S. steel project is included.
Mexico virtually doubled its quota to 0.95% of the U.S. steel market from 0.48% under the previous quotas..South Korea, which had 1.9% under the previous quotas, is set to get a small increase to about 1.95%..That increase rises to slightly more than 2% of the U.S. market if a joint Korean-U.S. steel project is included.Brazil is expected to increase its allowance from the 1.43% share it has had in recent years.
Mexico virtually doubled its quota to 0.95% of the U.S. steel market from 0.48% under the previous quotas..South Korea, which had 1.9% under the previous quotas, is set to get a small increase to about 1.95%..That increase rises to slightly more than 2% of the U.S. market if a joint Korean-U.S. steel project is included.Brazil is expected to increase its allowance from the 1.43% share it has had in recent years.
In the recent talks, the EC had its quota increased about 300,000 tons, to 7% of the U.S. market from 6.7% in 1988.its quota has been as high as 6.9% in 1984.
In the recent talks, the EC had its quota increased about 300,000 tons, to 7% of the U.S. market from 6.7% in 1988.Japan has agreed to cut its quota to about 5% from 5.9% previously.
Elcotel will also benefit from moving into other areas.that line of business to strengthen in the next year.
that several new products will lead to a "much stronger" performance in its second half.Elcotel will benefit from moving into other areas.
Elcotel will provide a credit-card reader for the machines to collect, store and forward billing data.Elcotel has developed an automatic call processor that will make further use of the company's system for automating and handling credit-card calls and collect calls.
Elcotel has also developed an automatic call processor that will make further use of the company's system for automating and handling credit-card calls and collect calls.The company will be producing a new line of convenience telephones, which don't accept coins, for use in hotel lobbies, office lobbies, hospitality lounges and similar settings.
to purchase Quest stock at a discount.any person or group acquires more than 15% of the company's common stock or announces a tender offer.
The move stems from lessons learned in Japan where local competitors have had phenomenal success with concentrated soapsuds.It marks P&G's growing concern that its Japanese rivals, such as Kao Corp., may bring their superconcentrates to the U.S.
the company will study results from this market.expanding to others.
The company introduced a superconcentrated Lemon Cheer in Japan.watching the success of Attack.
The company introduced a superconcentrated Lemon Cheer in Japan.watching the success of Attack.
P&G's share of the Japanese market fell to about 8% from more than 20%.Attack hit the shelves in 1987.
the true test for P&G will be in the $4 billion U.S. detergent market.the Japanese have embraced the compact packaging and convenience of concentrated products.
where growth is slow.liquids have gained prominence over powders.
The company may have chosen to market the product under the Cheer name.it's already expanded its best-selling Tide into 16 different varieties, including this year's big hit, Tide with Bleach.
With the help of Lemon Cheer, P&G's share is now estimated to be 12%.With superconcentrates it isn't always easy to persuade consumers that less is more.
In the early 1980s, P&G tried to launch here a concentrated detergent under the Ariel brand name that it markets in Europe.the product, which wasn't as concentrated as the new Cheer, bombed in a market test in Denver and was dropped.
In the early 1980s, P&G tried to launch here a concentrated detergent under the Ariel brand name that it markets in Europe..But the product, which wasn't as concentrated as the new Cheer, bombed in a market test in Denver and was dropped.P&G and others have tried repeatedly to hook consumers on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches, but they haven't sold well, despite the convenience.
P&G and others also have tried repeatedly to hook consumers on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches.they haven't sold well, despite the convenience.
but they haven't sold well, despite the convenience.P&G contends the new Cheer is a unique formula that also offers an ingredient that prevents colors from fading.
the new Cheer is a unique formula.that offers an ingredient that prevents colors from fading.
the new Cheer is a unique formula that also offers an ingredient that prevents colors from fading.retailers are expected to embrace the product, in part because it will take up less shelf space.
And retailers are expected to embrace the product.it will take up less shelf space.
bigger was better.shelf space was cheap.
When shelf space was cheap, bigger was better.with so many brands vying for space, that's no longer the case.
the trend toward smaller packaging is likely to accelerate.the new Cheer sells well.
the trend toward smaller packaging is likely to accelerate.competitors follow with their own superconcentrates.
the trend toward smaller packaging is likely to accelerate.competitors follow with their own superconcentrates.
If the new Cheer sells well, the trend toward smaller packaging is likely to accelerate as competitors follow with their own superconcentrates.retailers "will probably push the {less-established} brands out altogether.
Competition is bound to get tougher.Kao introduces a product like Attack in the U.S.
they are interested in selling detergents in the U.S.so far the company has focused on acquisitions, such as last year's purchase of Andrew Jergens Co., a Cincinnati hand-lotion maker.
but so far the company has focused on acquisitions, such as last year's purchase of Andrew Jergens Co., a Cincinnati hand-lotion maker.It has a product-testing facility in California.
They expected a new barrage of demands that Japan do something quickly to reduce its trade surplus with the U.S.they got a discussion of the need for the U.S. and Japan to work together and of the importance of the long-term view.
Mr. Mosbacher called for concrete results by next spring in negotiations over fundamental Japanese business practices that supposedly inhibit free trade.Mrs. Hills stressed that the objective "is not to get definitive action by spring or summer, it is rather to have a blueprint for action.
that the objective "is not to get definitive action by spring or summer.it is to have a blueprint for action.
Many called it simply a contrast in styles.some saw it as a classic negotiating tactic.
Many called it simply a contrast in styles But some saw it as a classic negotiating tactic Others said the Bush administration may feel the rhetoric on both sides is getting out of hand.some said it reflected the growing debate in Washington over pursuing free trade with Japan versus some kind of managed trade.
I didn't hear every word he spoke.as a general proposition, I think we have a very consistent trade strategy in the Bush administration.
Asked to compare her visit to Mr. Mosbacher's, Mrs. Hills replied: "I didn't hear every word he spoke, but as a general proposition, I think we have a very consistent trade strategy in the Bush administration.more than one American official who sat in with her during three days of talks with Japanese officials said her tone often was surprisingly "conciliatory.
I am painted sometimes as ferocious.I have a ferocious list of statutes to implement.
Mrs. Hills firmly reiterated the need for progress in removing barriers to trade in forest products, satellites and supercomputers, three areas targeted under the Super 301 provision of the 1988 trade bill.she met the local press for the first time on Friday.
She highlighted exclusionary business practices that the U.S. government has identified.her main thrust was to promote the importance of world-wide free trade and open competition.
My impression was that you would be a scary old lady.I am relieved to see that you are beautiful and gentle and intelligent and a person of integrity.
Many Americans have interpreted a 1986 agreement as assuring U.S. companies a 20% share by 1991.the Japanese have denied making any such promise.
I believe we can do much better than 20%.I am against managed trade.
Traditional Industries Inc. said it expects to report a net loss for the fourth quarter that ended June 30 and is seeking new financing.the company said it would file a delayed fiscal-year report with the Securities and Exchange Commission "within approximately 45 days.
a small subsidiary that is operationally unrelated becomes a difficult distraction.Syms's "core business of off-price retailing grows.
The gasoline picture may improve this quarter.chemicals are likely to remain weak.
He didn't forecast Phillips's results.securities analysts say Phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and will probably post a drop in third-quarter earnings.
Beginning in mid-1987, prices began accelerating.a growing U.S. economy and the weak dollar spurred demand.
Beginning in mid-1987, prices began accelerating.a growing U.S. economy and the weak dollar spurred demand.
Now, greatly increased supplies are on the market.the dollar is stronger, and domestic economic growth is slower.
Now, greatly increased supplies are on the market.the dollar is stronger, and domestic economic growth is slower.
while the dollar is stronger.domestic economic growth is slower.
The excess supply pushed gasoline prices down in that period.crude oil prices were up some from a year earlier, further pressuring profitability.
margins picked up in September.gasoline profits will rebound this quarter, though still not to the level of 1988's fourth quarter.
Demand has been much stronger than anticipated.it typically accelerates in the fourth quarter.
natural gas prices have been worse.oil prices have been better than expected.
Last summer was notable for a heat wave and drought that caused utilities to burn more natural gas to feed increased electrical demand from air conditioning use.This summer had milder weather than usual.
Going into the fourth quarter, natural gas prices are anywhere from 8% to 17% lower than a year earlier.natural gas currently produced along the Gulf Coast is selling on the spot market for around $1.47 a thousand cubic feet, down 13% from $1.69 a thousand cubic feet a year ago.
Most of the Western European members of Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, the unofficial forum through which the U.S. and its allies align their export-control policies, are expected to argue for more liberal export rules at a meeting to be held in Paris Oct. 25 and 26.They plan to press for a relaxation of rules governing exports of machine tools, computers and other high-technology products.
Most of the Western European members of Coordinating Committee on Multilateral Export Controls, the unofficial forum through which the U.S. and its allies align their export-control policies, are expected to argue for more liberal export rules at a meeting to be held in Paris Oct. 25 and 26.it wants to see evidence that all Cocom members are complying fully with existing export-control procedures before it will support further liberalization.
to see evidence that all Cocom members are complying fully with existing export-control procedures.it will support further liberalization.
the disclosure couldn't be better timed to support the position of export-control hawks in the Pentagon and the intelligence community.the legality of these sales is still an open question.
Last summer, Mr. Bush moved the administration in the direction of gradual liberalization.he told a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting that he would allow some exceptions to the Cocom embargo of strategic goods.
Last summer, Mr. Bush moved the administration in the direction of gradual liberalization when he told a North Atlantic Treaty Organization meeting that he would allow some exceptions to the Cocom embargo of strategic goods.more recently, the Pentagon and the Commerce Department openly feuded over the extent to which Cocom should liberalize exports of personal computers to the bloc.
reflecting unhealed divisions among several competing agencies.these agencies generally agree that the West should be cautious about any further liberalization.
Salomon's warrants are the first here to be issued by a third party.Hong Kong companies have in the past issued warrants on their own shares.
warrants for Hong Kong stocks are attractive.they give foreign investors an opportunity to buy shares without taking too great a risk.
The Hong Kong Telecommunications warrants should be attractive to buyers in Europe.the group is one of a handful of blue-chip stocks on the Hong Kong market that has international appeal.
by concealing their relationship.persuading it to buy $284 million in high-yield, high-risk junk bonds.
Financial Corp. purchased the bonds.Mr. Boesky and Drexel negotiated an agreement for Vagabond Hotels to purchase a 51% stake in the thrift for about $34 million.
they hadn't seen the suit.and couldn't comment.
Financial Corp. of Santa Barbara filed suit against former stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.named in the suit is Ivan F. Boesky Corp. and Northview Corp., the successor company to Vagabonds Hotels.
it agreed to buy the bonds.a representative of Ivan F. Boesky Corp. visited it in November 1983 and said Financial Corp. could improve its financial condition by purchasing the bonds.
it agreed to buy the bonds.a representative of Ivan F. Boesky Corp. visited it in November 1983 and said Financial Corp. could improve its financial condition by purchasing the bonds.
and had signed a letter of intent to acquire the 51% stake in the company.the agreement was canceled in June 1984.
its directors reached an agreement in principle calling for HOFI North America Inc. to combine its North American cement holdings with Ideal in a transaction that will leave Ideal's minority shareholders with 12.8% of the combined company.HOFI, the North American holding company of Swiss concern Holderbank Financiere Glaris Ltd proposed combining its 100% stake in St. Lawrence Cement Inc. and its 60% stake in Dundee Cement Co. with its 67% stake in Ideal.
HOFI, the North American holding company of Swiss concern Holderbank Financiere Glaris Ltd., previously proposed combining its 100% stake in St. Lawrence Cement Inc. and its 60% stake in Dundee Cement Co. with its 67% stake in Ideal.HOFI's first offer would have given Ideal's other shareholders about 10% of the combined company.
Ideal's directors rejected that offer.they endorsed the merger proposal.
wheat prices remain stubbornly high.corn and soybean prices have slumped well below their drought-induced peaks of 1988.
wheat prices remain stubbornly high.corn and soybean prices have slumped well below their drought-induced peaks of 1988.
wheat prices remain stubbornly high.they're likely to stay that way for months to come.
For one thing, even with many farmers planting more winter wheat this year than last, tight wheat supplies are likely to support prices well into 1990.if rain doesn't fall soon across many of the Great Plains' wheat-growing areas, yields in the crop now being planted could be reduced, further squeezing supplies.
And yields in the crop now being planted could be reduced.rain doesn't fall soon across many of the Great Plains' wheat-growing areas.
For one thing tight wheat supplies are likely to support prices well into 1990.supporting prices are expectations that the Soviet Union will place substantial buying orders over the next few months.
to be carried over into the next season.the winter wheat now being planted is harvested.
The government estimates that the new plan will boost production next year by about 66 million bushels.the full effect on prices of the winter wheat now being planted won't be felt until the second half of next year.
Unseasonably hot, dry weather across large portions of the Great Plains and in wheat-growing areas in Washington and Oregon is threatening to reduce the yield from this season's winter wheat crop.in the Oklahoma panhandle, 40% or more of the topsoil is short of moisture.
The Soviet Union hasn't given any clear indication of its wheat purchase plans.many analysts expect Moscow to place sizable orders for U.S. wheat in the next few months, further supporting prices.
Late Thursday, after the close of trading, the market received what would normally have been a bullish U.S. Department of Agriculture estimate of the 1989-90 Florida orange crop.Brazil waited for the crop estimate to come out and then cut the export price of its juice concentrate to about $1.34 a pound from around $1.55.
However Brazil waited for the crop estimate to come out.and cut the export price of its juice concentrate to about $1.34 a pound from around $1.55.
It's a dollar-priced product.the strong dollar has made it more expensive in Europe.
It's a dollar-priced product.the strong dollar has made it more expensive in Europe.
last week's rally is generally expected to continue this week.some analysts look for profit-taking in the wake of Friday's leap in crude oil prices.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, West Texas Intermediate crude for November delivery finished at $20.89 a barrel, up 42 cents on the day.On European markets spot prices of North Sea crudes were up 35 to 75 cents a barrel.
On the New York Mercantile Exchange, West Texas Intermediate crude for November delivery finished at $20.89 a barrel, up 42 cents on the day.On European markets spot prices of North Sea crudes were up 35 to 75 cents a barrel.
Analysts generally cite a lack of bearish developments as well as rumors of a possible tightening of supplies of some fuels and crudes.There are recurring reports that the Soviet Union is having difficulties with its oil exports and that Nigeria has about reached its production limit and can't produce as much as it could sell.
that the Soviet Union is having difficulties with its oil exports.that Nigeria has about reached its production limit and can't produce as much as it could sell.
co-founders Charles and Maurice Saatchi will lead a management buy-out attempt.a hostile predator emerges for Saatchi & Saatchi Co.
Financing for any takeover attempt may be problematic in the wake of Friday's stock-market sell-off in New York and turmoil in the junk-bond market.the beleaguered British advertising and consulting giant has been the subject of intense takeover speculation for weeks.
Last week, Saatchi's largest shareholder, Southeastern Asset Management, said it had been approached by one or more third parties interested in a possible restructuring.Carl Spielvogel, chief executive officer of Saatchi's big Backer Spielvogel Bates advertising unit, said he had offered to lead a management buy-out of the company.
that it would have no choice but to recommend it to shareholders.a bidder came up with a ludicrously high offer, a crazy offer which Saatchi knew it couldn't beat.
that "if a bidder came up with a ludicrously high offer, a crazy offer which Saatchi knew it couldn't beat, it would have no choice but to recommend it to shareholders.otherwise} it would undoubtedly come back" with an offer by management.
that "if a bidder came up with a ludicrously high offer, a crazy offer which Saatchi knew it couldn't beat, it would have no choice but to recommend it to shareholders.But it would undoubtedly come back" with an offer by management.
whose chairman is Maurice Saatchi.whose strategic guiding force is believed to be Charles Saatchi.
Mr. Spielvogel isn't part of the board.are any of the other heads of Saatchi's big U.S.-based ad agencies.
The executive didn't name any price.securities analysts have said Saatchi would fetch upward of $1.3 billion.
only to clean up the company financially.the brothers could lead a buy-back.
That speculation abounded Friday.industry executives analyzed the appointment of the new chief executive, Robert Louis-Dreyfus.
But the beleaguered British advertising and consulting giant has been the subject of intense takeover speculation for weeks.several Saatchi agency clients said they believe the company's management shakeup will have little affect on them.
It hasn't had any impact on us.do we expect it to.
We have no problem with the announcement.we don't know what change it's going to bring about.
It hasn't had any impact on us, nor do we expect it to," said a spokeswoman for Miller Brewing Co., a major client of Backer Spielvogel..John Lampe, director of advertising at PaineWebber Inc., a Saatchi & Saatchi Advertising client, said: "We have no problem with the announcement.Executives at Backer Spielvogel client Avis Inc., as well as at Saatchi client Philips Lighting Co said they saw no effect.
California's Glendale Federal Bank awarded its $12 million to $15 million account to the Los Angeles office of Omnicom Group's BBDO agency.The account was handled by Davis, Ball & Colombatto Advertising Inc., a Los Angeles agency.
A spokeswoman wouldn't elaborate.the company said the discontinued product has never been a major source of revenue or profit.
that it filed part of its 10-K report with the Securities and Exchange Commission.that the filing doesn't include its audited financial statements and related information.
it plans to amend its 10K to provide financial results.its audit is completed.
who resigned last month.Mr. Field had been chairman of McKesson Corp.
Alan Seelenfreund, 52 years old, was named chairman of this processor of prescription claims.PCS named Rex R. Malson, 57, executive vice president at McKesson, as a director.
In New York, the Bonwit Teller and B. Altman & Co. department stores have filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.the R.H. Macy & Co., Bloomingdale's and Saks Fifth Avenue department-store chains are for sale.
In New York, the Bonwit Teller and B. Altman & Co. department stores have filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code.the R.H. Macy & Co., Bloomingdale's and Saks Fifth Avenue department-store chains are for sale.
seasonal retail ad spending patterns in newspapers have been upset by shifts in ownership and general hardships within the retail industry.Many papers throughout the country are faced with a slowdown in classified-ad spending, a booming category for newspapers in recent years.
decreases in retail ad spending had bottomed out.and would increase in this year's third and fourth quarters.
Improved paper prices will help offset weakness in linage.the retailers' problems have affected the amount of ad linage they usually run.
Improved paper prices will help offset weakness in linage, but the retailers' problems have affected the amount of ad linage they usually run.Gannett Co. posted an 11% gain in net income, as total ad pages dropped at USA Today, but advertising revenue rose because of a higher circulation rate base and increased rates.
For instance, Gannett Co. posted an 11% gain in net income.total ad pages dropped at USA Today.
For instance, Gannett Co. posted an 11% gain in net income.total ad pages dropped at USA Today.
For instance, Gannett Co. posted an 11% gain in net income, as total ad pages dropped at USA Today.advertising revenue rose because of a higher circulation rate base and increased rates.
Total advertising linage was "modestly" lower.classified-ad volume increased.
Total advertising linage was "modestly" lower as classified-ad volume increased.there was "softer demand" for retail and national ad linage.
the paper's ad revenue increased 8% in the quarter and 13% in the nine months.USA Today's total paid ad pages for the year to date totaled 2,735, a decrease of 4% from last year.
analysts are encouraged, because they don't expect a price increase for the rest of this year.a supply crunch caused prices to rise 14% since 1986 to $650 a metric ton.
analysts are encouraged.they don't expect a price increase for the rest of this year.
by improved ad linage at the Los Angeles Times.which this week unveiled a redesign.
Times Co. 's regional daily newspapers are holding up well.there is little sign that things will improve in the New York market.
Washington Post Co. is expected to report improved earnings, largely because of increased cable revenue and publishing revenue helped by an improved retail market in the Washington area.According to analysts, profits were helped by successful cost-cutting measures at Newsweek.
that earnings were down in the third quarter.analysts point to positive advertising spending at several of its major daily newspapers, such as the Miami Herald and San Jose Mercury News.
when Knight-Ridder "was starting up a Hispanic edition.circulation was falling.
that as many as five North American assembly plants may not survive the mid-1990s.the corporation struggles to cut its excess vehicle-making capacity.
that as many as five North American assembly plants may not survive the mid-1990s.the corporation struggles to cut its excess vehicle-making capacity.
that became unprofitable.the giant auto maker's U.S. market share skidded during the past decade.
that became unprofitable.the giant auto maker's U.S. market share skidded during the past decade.
to get their strategy to reduce capacity and the work force in place.those talks begin.
GM officials want to get their strategy to reduce capacity and the work force in place before those talks begin.The problem is that GM's moves are coming at a time when UAW leaders are trying to silence dissidents who charge the union is too passive in the face of GM layoffs.
to criticize the U.S.-Canada free trade agreement and its champion, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney.Canadian auto workers may benefit from a separate GM move that affects three U.S. car plants and one in Quebec.
the plant has no new product lined up.none of us knows" when the A-body cars will die.
he believes GM has plans to keep building A-body cars into the mid-1990s.At Pontiac the Camaro-Firebird decision appears to erase UAW hopes that GM would reopen the shuttered assembly plant that last built the plastic-bodied, two-seater Pontiac Fiero model.
The Fiero plant was viewed as a model of union-management cooperation at GM.slow sales of the Fiero forced the company to close the factory last year.
before slow sales of the Fiero forced the company to close the factory last year.Union officials have taken a beating politically.
they hadn't been informed of specific areas of concern by either the government or Investment Canada.they hope to have more information early this week.
Mr. Mehta expects it to contain more specific guarantees on research and development spending levels in Canada than Merieux offered to Investment Canada.neither side will disclose its contents.
it canceled plans for a preferred-stock swap but may resume payment of dividends on the stock.that it expects to publicly offer about 10 million common shares.
it canceled plans for a preferred-stock swap.that in January 1990, it may resume payments of dividends on the preferred stock.
The energy-services concern said, however, that in January 1990, it may resume payments of dividends on the preferred stock..Weatherford suspended its preferred-dividend payment in October 1985 and said it hasn't any plans to catch up on dividends in arrears about $6 million, but will do so some time in the future.the company said it filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the proposed offering of 10 million shares of common stock, expected to be offered in November.
Earnings for most of the nation's major pharmaceutical makers are believed to have moved ahead briskly in the third quarter.companies with newer, big-selling prescription drugs fared especially well.
Earnings for most of the nation's major pharmaceutical makers are believed to have moved ahead briskly in the third quarter.For the third consecutive quarter most of the companies' revenues were battered by adverse foreign-currency translations as a result of the strong dollar abroad.
that over the past few years most drug makers have shed their slow-growing businesses and instituted other cost savings.major new products are having significant impact, even on a company with very large revenues.
that the rate of growth will "look especially good as compared to other companies if the economy turns downward.that's not spectacular.
that the rate of growth will "look especially good as compared to other companies.the economy turns downward.
Profit climbed.Merck's sales were reduced by "one to three percentage points" as a result of the strong dollar.
he estimated that Lilly's earnings for the quarter jumped about 20%, largely because of the performance of its new anti-depressant Prozac.they expected Warner-Lambert's profit to increase by more than 20% from $87.7 million, or $1.25 a share, it reported in the like period last year.
that Schering-Plough Corp. 's expected profit rise of about 18% to 20%, and Bristol-Meyers's expected profit increase of about 13% are.those companies are really managed well.
ScheringPlough earned $94.4 million, or 84 cents a share.Bristol-Myers earned $232.3 million, or 81 cents a share, in the like period a year earlier.
that Merck's profit for the quarter rose by about 22% that Lilly's earnings for the quarter jumped about 20% Warner-Lambert's profit also to increase by more than 20% from $87.7 million, or $1.25 a share, it reported in the like period last year to be about 18% above the $123 million, or $1.25 a share, it earned in the third quarter of 1988 that Schering-Plough Corp. 's expected profit rise of about 18% to 20%, and Bristol-Meyers's expected profit increase of about 13% , and Bristol-Meyers's expected profit increase of about 13%.to decline by about 5%.
Meanwhile Pfizer's recent string of lackluster quarterly performances continued.earnings in the quarter were expected to decline by about 5%.
Sales of both drugs have been hurt by new state laws restricting the prescriptions of certain tranquilizing medicines and adverse publicity about the excessive use of the drugs.the company's hair-growing drug, Rogaine, is selling well -- at about $125 million for the year, but the company's profit from the drug has been reduced by Upjohn's expensive print and television campaigns for advertising.
Also, the company's hair-growing drug, Rogaine, is selling well -- at about $125 million for the year.the company's profit from the drug has been reduced by Upjohn's expensive print and television campaigns for advertising.
Amid a crowd of crashing stocks, Relational Technology Inc. 's stock fell particularly hard Friday.its problems were compounded by disclosure of an unexpected loss for its fiscal first quarter.
our domestic business was substantially below expectations.our international operations showed strong growth.
the company's first quarter is historically soft.computer companies in general are experiencing slower sales.
he accepted the resignation of Thomas Wilson, vice president of corporate sales.that his marketing responsibilities have been reassigned.
The Bronx has a wonderful botanical garden, a great zoo, its own charming Little Italy (on Arthur Avenue) and, of course, the Yankees.most people look at the borough the way Tom Wolfe's Sherman McCoy did in "Bonfire of the Vanities" -- as a wrong turn into hell.
The Bronx has a wonderful botanical garden, a great zoo, its own charming Little Italy (on Arthur Avenue) and, of course, the Yankees However, most people look at the borough the way Tom Wolfe's Sherman McCoy did in "Bonfire of the Vanities" -- as a wrong turn into hell.Laura Cunningham's Bronx, her childhood Bronx of the '50s, is something else altogether.
Rosie died young.Lily has remembered her as a romantic figure.
The games Bronx children played seem tame by today's crack standards.holding kids down and stripping them.
The games Bronx children played seem tame by today's crack standards.Ms. Cunningham makes it all sound like a great adventure.
Her friend Susan slept on a narrow bed wedged into her parents' bedroom.she were a temporary visitor.
Maybe Lily became so obsessed with where people slept and how.her own arrangements kept shifting.
her uncles moved in -- and let her make the sleeping and other household arrangements.Rosie died.
The book loses some momentum toward the end.For the most part there's much pleasure in her saucy, poignant probe into the mysteries of the Babylonian Bronx.
But Laura Cunningham's Bronx, her childhood Bronx of the '50s, is something else altogether.The Bronx figures in Bruce Jay Friedman's latest novel.
The Bronx also figures in Bruce Jay Friedman's latest novel, which flashes back to the New York of the '50s.both the past and present worlds of "The Current Climate" (Atlantic Monthly Press, 200 pages, $18.95) feel cramped and static.
Line by line Mr. Friedman's weary cynicism can be amusing.he's riffing on the Hollywood social scheme -- the way people size each other up.
Line by line Mr. Friedman's weary cynicism can be amusing.he's riffing on the Hollywood social scheme -- the way people size each other up.
she barely seems to notice.her husband disappears for drug-seeking forays into Manhattan.
Line by line Mr. Friedman's weary cynicism can be amusing.it doesn't take too many lines to figure Harry out.
that $1 million of the payment was previously provided for in its financial statements.that $500,000 will be recognized in its 1989 third-quarter statement.
Under the agreement, Gulf must give the U.S. government 45 days' advance written notice.issuing any dividends on common stock.
The company's net worth cannot fall below $185 million.the dividends are issued.
Under the agreement, Gulf must give the U.S. government 45 days' advance written notice before issuing any dividends on common stock..The company's net worth cannot fall below $185 million after the dividends are issued.Gulf must give the government 20 days' advance written notice of any loans exceeding $50 million that are made to the Bermuda-based holding company..Gulf's net worth after those transaction must be at least $150 million.
Gulf Resources & Chemical Corp. said it agreed to pay $1.5 million as part of an accord with the Environmental Protection Agency regarding an environmental cleanup of a defunct smelter the company formerly operated in Idaho.the company said it expects to hold a special meeting for shareholders in early 1990 to vote on its proposed reorganization.
it will be a big plus.we get rid of a lot of that nonsense.
The executives were remarkably unperturbed by the plunge.it lopped billions of dollars off the value of their companies -- and millions off their personal fortunes.
who was leisurely strolling through the bright orange and yellow leaves of the mountains here.his company's shares plunged $5.75 to close at $86.50.
that this happened two years ago.there was a recovery.
Of course, established corporate managements often tend to applaud the setbacks of stock speculators and takeover artists.one chief executive who was downright delighted by Friday's events was Robert Crandall, chairman of AMR Corp., the parent of American Airlines and the target of a takeover offer by Mr. Trump.
the economy would grow at roughly an inflation-adjusted 2% annual rate, through next year.accelerate anew in 1991.
Of the 19 economists who worked on the Business Council forecast, only two projected periods of decline in the nation's output over the next two years.in "both instances the declines are too modest to warrant the phrase recession.
that's pushing down the price of New York office space and housing.The real estate slump is affecting the city's retail real estate market.
In Manhattan, once-desirable store sites sit vacant.newly constructed space has been slow to fill.
should they sign a lease.prices are still coming down.
There is an unbelievable amount of space available.tenants usually can negotiate to pay rents that are about one-quarter lower than landlords' initial asking price.
A handful of hot retail locations, such as the 57th Street and Madison and Fifth Avenue areas, have been able to sustain what many see as astronomical rents.in some neighborhoods, rents have merely hit a plateau.
A handful of hot retail locations, such as the 57th Street and Madison and Fifth Avenue areas, have been able to sustain what many see as astronomical rents..And, in some neighborhoods, rents have merely hit a plateau.on average, Manhattan retail rents have dropped 10% to 15% in the past six months alone.
That follows a more subtle decline in the prior six months.Manhattan rents had run up rapidly since 1986.
the number of employees who might use retail services shrinks.businesses contract or depart.
the number of employees who might use retail services shrinks.businesses contract or depart.
Retailers are increasingly cautious about expanding.rents have remained steady or in some cases have declined.
Weakness in the restaurant industry exacerbates the problem for landlords.It is no comfort to landlords and small New York retailers when the future of larger department stores are in doubt.
It is also no comfort to landlords and small New York retailers.the future of larger department stores, which anchor retail neighborhoods, are in doubt.
Hooker Corp., parent of Bonwit Teller and B. Altman's, is mired in bankruptcy proceedings.Bloomingdale's is for sale by its owner, Campeau Corp.
The trend toward lower rents may seem surprising given that some communities in New York are bemoaning the loss of favorite local businesses to high rents.despite the recent softening, for many of these retailers there's still been too big a jump from the rental rates of the late 1970s, when their leases were signed.
Madison and Fifth Avenues and East 57th Street can command rents of up to $500 a square foot.$250 is not uncommon.
Madison and Fifth Avenues and East 57th Street can command rents of up to $500 a square foot, and $250 is not uncommon..The thriving 34th Street area offers rents of about $100 a square foot, as do up-and-coming locations along lower Fifth Avenue.rentals in the best retail locations in Boston, San Francisco and Chicago rarely top $100 a square foot.
By contrast, rentals in the best retail locations in Boston, San Francisco and Chicago rarely top $100 a square foot.rents on Beverly Hills' Rodeo Drive generally don't exceed about $125 a square foot.
the occasion will differ sharply from previous anniversaries of his tenure.Justice William Brennan marks the start of his 34th year on the Supreme Court today.
For the first time, the 83-year-old justice finds his influence almost exclusively in dissent, rather than as a force in the high court's majority..This role reversal holds true, as well, for his three liberal and moderate allies, Justices Thurgood Marshall, Harry Blackmun and John Stevens.are these four players, three of them in their 80s, ready to assume a different role after 88 years, collectively, of service on the high court.
The four justices are no newcomers to dissent, often joining forces in the past decade to criticize the court's conservative drift.always, in years past, they have bucked the trend and have been able to pick up a fifth vote to eke out a number of major victories in civil rights and liberties cases.
and have been able to pick up a fifth vote to eke out a number of major victories in civil rights and liberties cases.Now victories for the liberals are rare.
Now, however victories for the liberals are rare.the court's new five-member conservative majority continues to solidify.
Now, however victories for the liberals are rare.the court's new five-member conservative majority continues to solidify.
The change is most dramatic for Justice Brennan, the last survivor of the mid-1960s liberal majority under Chief Justice Earl Warren.Justice Brennan foresaw his new role, strongly defending the importance of dissents in a 1985 speech.
to reconsider the fundamental questions.to rethink the result.
But Justice Brennan foresaw his new role, strongly defending the importance of dissents in a 1985 speech.in recent months he has said that when he was on the winning side in the 1960s, he knew that the tables might turn in the future.
that he knew that the tables might turn in the future.he was on the winning side in the 1960s.
We could sweep it under the rug and hide it.I'm not going to do it.
but is feisty about his role.Justice Blackmun seems feisty about his new role.
he was no more discouraged about the court than in recent years.his outlook improved after successful cataract surgery in August.
And his outlook improved after successful cataract surgery in August.his level of frustration showed in a recent, impassioned speech to a group of hundreds of lawyers in Chicago.
Justice Stevens, 69, is probably the most philosophical of the dissenters about his role.he may be the least liberal of the four.
in part because he may be the least liberal of the four.also because he enjoys the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority more than the others.
in part because he may be the least liberal of the four.but because he enjoys the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority more than the others.
Justice Stevens, 69, is probably the most philosophical of the dissenters about his role.but also he enjoys the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority more than the others.
it also differs in an important way from recent history.the role these four dissenters are assuming is a familiar one in modern Supreme Court history.
it also differs in an important way from recent history.the role these four dissenters are assuming is a familiar one in modern Supreme Court history.
If the role these four dissenters are assuming is a familiar one in modern Supreme Court history.it differs in an important way from recent history.
The dissenters of the Warren Court were often defending a legal legacy that they inherited.the dissenters today are defending a legacy that they created.
The government sold the deposits of four savings-and-loan institutions, in its first wave of sales of big, sick thrifts.low bids prevented the sale of a fifth.
of the 28 previous transactions initiated by the Resolution Trust Corp.it was created in the S&L bailout legislation two months ago.
Under these deals, the RTC sells just the deposits and the healthy assets.to be sold.
These "clean-bank" transactions leave the bulk of bad assets, mostly real estate, with the government.In these four the RTC is stuck with $4.51 billion in bad assets.
Acquirers paid premiums ranging from 1.5% to 3.7% for the deposits and branch systems, roughly in line with what analysts were expecting.The buyers will be locked into deposit rates for just two weeks, as has been the case with previous deals.
After that, the buyers may repudiate the rates paid by the former thrifts.it's uncertain whether these institutions will take those steps.
But it's uncertain whether these institutions will take those steps.NCNB has been one of the highest rate payers in the Texas market, and in Florida, rates are especially sensitive in retirement communities.
NCNB, for example, has been one of the highest rate payers in the Texas market.in Florida, rates are especially sensitive in retirement communities.
The RTC had previously targeted five thrifts for quick sales.the delays illustrate the tough chore facing the agency.
but the delays illustrate the tough chore facing the agency.the delay in selling People's Heritage Savings, Salina, Kan., with $1.7 billion in assets, has forced the RTC to consider selling off the thrift branch-by-branch, instead of as a whole institution.
NCNB will acquire University Federal Savings Association, Houston, which had assets of $2.8 billion..NCNB Texas National Bank will pay the RTC a premium of $129 million for $3.5 billion in deposits..As a measure of the depths to which the Texas real estate market has sunk, the RTC will pay $3.8 billion to NCNB to take $750 million of bad assets.NCNB acquired Freedom Savings & Loan Association, Tampa, Fla., which had total assets of $900 million..NCNB will pay the RTC a premium of $40.4 million for $1.1 billion in deposits..NCNB will also acquire $266 million of Freedom's assets from the RTC, which will require $875 million in assistance.
NCNB will pay the RTC a premium of $40.4 million for $1.1 billion in deposits.NCNB will acquire $266 million of Freedom's assets from the RTC.
Meridian will pay a premium of $30.5 million to assume $2 billion in deposits.It will purchase $845 million of the thrift's assets, with $1.9 billion in RTC assistance.
Royal Trustco will pay the RTC $25 million to assume $989 million in deposits.It will purchase $473 million in assets, and receive $550 million in assistance from the RTC.
it won't increase its advertising rates in 1990.because the guaranteed circulation base is being lowered, ad rates will be effectively 7.5% higher per subscriber, according to Richard Heinemann, Time associate publisher.
However ad rates will be effectively 7.5% higher per subscriber, according to Richard Heinemann, Time associate publisher.the guaranteed circulation base is being lowered.
Deep discounts in subscriptions and offers of free clock radios and watches have become accepted forms of attracting new subscribers in the hyper-competitive world of magazine news-weeklies.Time, as part of the more cost-conscious Time Warner, wants to wean itself away from expensive gimmicks.
But Time, as part of the more cost-conscious Time Warner, wants to wean itself away from expensive gimmicks.Time executives think selling a news magazine with a clock radio is tacky.
Time magazine executives predictably paint the circulation cut as a show of strength and actually a benefit to advertisers.Time executives used the same explanation when in October 1988 the magazine cut its guaranteed circulation from 4.6 million to 4.3 million.
However, Time executives used the same explanation.in October 1988 the magazine cut its guaranteed circulation from 4.6 million to 4.3 million.
when in October 1988 the magazine cut its guaranteed circulation from 4.6 million to 4.3 million.Time's paid circulation, according to Audit Bureau of Circulations, dropped 7.3% to 4,393,237 in the six months ended June 30, 1989.
However, Time executives used the same explanation when in October 1988 the magazine cut its guaranteed circulation from 4.6 million to 4.3 million..And Time's paid circulation, according to Audit Bureau of Circulations, dropped 7.3% to 4,393,237 in the six months ended June 30, 1989.Time's move is being received well, once again.
they are improving the quality of circulation.insuring their profits.
they are improving the quality of circulation.insuring their profits.
Time's rivals news-weeklies, Washington Post Co. 's Newsweek and U.S. News & World Report, are less reliant on electronic giveaways.in recent years both have been increasing their circulation rate bases.
Sen. Christopher Dodd called the State Department for a briefing.the news broke of an attempted coup in Panama two weeks ago.
It is bigger, faster and more profitable than the news divisions of any of the three major broadcast networks..Its niche as the "network of record" during major crises draws elite audiences around the world.for all its success, CNN has hit a plateau.
it ebbs during periods of calm.viewership soars when big news breaks.
Although viewership soars.big news breaks.
and won't keep viewers coming back.the alternatives multiply for news and information on cable-TV.
and won't keep viewers coming back.the alternatives multiply for news and information on cable-TV.
Just the fact we're on 24 hours is no longer bulletin You can't live on that.CNN, a unit of Atlanta-based Turner Broadcasting System Inc., is trying to reposition itself as a primary channel, or what people in the television industry call a "top of mind" network.
by shifting away from its current format toward more full-length "signature" programming with recognizable stars.CNN is expanding international coverage and adding a second global-news program.
It is paying higher salaries -- after years of scrimping -- to lure and keep experienced staffers.it is embarking on an expensive gamble to break major stories with a large investigative-reporting team.
The next stage is to get beyond the opinion leaders who use us as a point of reference to become a point of reference at ordinary dinner tables.that won't be easy.
Networks, like other consumer products, develop images in peoples' minds that aren't easy to change.It takes money that CNN has been reluctant to spend to make programs and hire talent that viewers will tune in specially to see.
It also takes money that CNN has been reluctant to spend to make programs and hire talent that viewers will tune in specially to see.the cable-TV operators -- CNN's distributors and part owners -- like things just the way they are.
and what may happen to it.the cable-TV news market grows more competitive.
Already, CNN is facing stronger competition from Financial News Network Inc. and General Electric Co. 's Consumer News and Business Channel, both of which are likely to pursue more general news in the future.many cable-TV systems themselves are airing more local and regional news programs produced by local broadcast stations.
The brief attention viewers give CNN could put it at a disadvantage.ratings data, and advertising, become more important to cable-TV channels.
The brief attention viewers give CNN could put it at a disadvantage.ratings data, and advertising, become more important to cable-TV channels.
It focused on building up its news bureaus around the world.it could go live quicker and longer than other networks.
so it could go live quicker and longer than other networks.events took place.
It filled its daily schedule with newscasts called "Daybreak," "Daywatch," "Newsday," and "Newsnight.the shows varied little in content, personality or look.
Now, the push is on for more-distinctive shows.CNN is adding a world-affairs show in the morning because surveys show its global-news hour in the afternoon is among its most "differentiated" programs in viewers' minds.
Accordingly, CNN is adding a world-affairs show in the morning.surveys show its global-news hour in the afternoon is among its most "differentiated" programs in viewers' minds.
Accordingly, CNN is adding a world-affairs show in the morning.it is exploring other original programs, similar to its "Larry King Live" and "Crossfire" talk shows.
which executives hope will keep people tuned in.there's "The World Today," the prime-time newscast featuring Mr. Shaw and Ms. Crier.
Until now, CNN has featured its Hollywood gossip show during the key evening period.70% of the cable-television-equipped households that watch news do so between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. so CNN wants in.
But 70% of the cable-television-equipped households that watch news do so between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m.CNN wants in.
But 70% of the cable-television-equipped households that watch news do so between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m so CNN wants in.The evening news is slated as CNN's stage for its big push into investigative journalism.
CNN will follow through with its investigative commitment.it sees the cost of producing in-depth pieces.
CNN will follow through with its investigative commitment.it sees the cost of producing in-depth pieces.
CNN recently gave most employees raises of as much as 15%.they're still drastically underpaid compared with the networks.
they're on top of everything.to improve, they've really got to make the investment in people.
We would obviously be upset.those kinds of services evolved into more general-interest, long-format programming.
Admittedly, the principle in the cases is the same.the outcome of a legal dispute almost always turns on the facts.
But the outcome of a legal dispute almost always turns on the facts.the facts, as found by the various courts in these two lawsuits, were different.
you leave the realm of reporting and enter the orbit of speculation.you suggest otherwise.
Terms weren't disclosed.it expected to post a modest pretax gain and to save about $2 million in operating costs annually.
to post a modest pretax gain.to save about $2 million in operating costs annually.
whether to seek another buyer for the branches.to pursue the transaction with Imperial Corp.
that the suits should be dismissed as moot.neither the S&Ls nor the extinct Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. has the money to pay judgments.
even the S&L lawyers concede there's little precedent to back their position.the argument may have a common-sense ring to it.
even the S&L lawyers concede there's little precedent to back their position.one federal appeals court has signaled it's willing to entertain the notion, and the lawyers have renewed their arguments in Texas and eight other states where the defense is permitted under state law.
Still, one federal appeals court has signaled it's willing to entertain the notion.the lawyers have renewed their arguments in Texas and eight other states where the defense is permitted under state law.
this contention would justify dismissal of these actions on prudential grounds.true.
If true this contention would justify dismissal of these actions on prudential grounds.the court said it lacked enough financial information about Sunbelt and the FSLIC and sent the cases back to federal district court in Dallas.
to dismiss the suits.Sunbelt's liabilities exceeded its assets by about $2 billion when federal regulators closed it in August 1988.
because Sunbelt's liabilities exceeded its assets by about $2 billion.federal regulators closed it in August 1988.
This institution is just brain dead.a lawyer for Triland Investment Group, the developer of Valley Ranch, dismisses such arguments as a "defense du jour.
Mandela, considered the most prominent leader of the ANC, remains in prison.his release within the next few months is widely expected.
that thousands of tons of goods needed to ease widespread shortages across the nation were piled up at ports and rail depots.food shipments were rotting because of a lack of people and equipment to move the cargo.
Strikes and mismanagement were cited.Premier Ryzhkov warned of "tough measures.
He reiterated his opposition to such funding, but expressed hope of a compromise.The president, at a news conference Friday renewed a call for the ouster of Panama's Noriega.
The White House said minors haven't any right to abortion without the consent of their parents..The administration's policy was stated in a friend-of-the-court brief urging the Supreme Court to give states more leeway to restrict abortions.Ten of the nation's governors called on the justices to reject efforts to limit abortions.
The White House said minors haven't any right to abortion without the consent of their parents..The administration's policy was stated in a friend-of-the-court brief urging the Supreme Court to give states more leeway to restrict abortions.Ten of the nation's governors called on the justices to reject efforts to limit abortions.
In the occupied lands, underground leaders of the Arab uprising rejected a U.S. plan to arrange Israeli-Palestinian talks.Shamir opposed holding such discussions in Cairo.
In the occupied lands, underground leaders of the Arab uprising rejected a U.S. plan to arrange Israeli-Palestinian talks.Shamir opposed holding such discussions in Cairo.
Thousands of residents of low-lying areas were ordered to evacuate.the storm headed north in the Gulf of Mexico with 80 mph winds.
Thousands of residents of low-lying areas were ordered to evacuate.the storm headed north in the Gulf of Mexico with 80 mph winds.
that continued control of Arby's by Victor Posner is totally unacceptable to us.it is extremely likely to cause irreparable damage to the Arby's system.
that inflation still persists.the pessimism over interest rates caused by the new price data contributed to the stock market's plunge Friday.
the producer price index for finished goods shot up 0.9% last month.falling for three consecutive months.
the producer price index for finished goods shot up 0.9% last month.energy prices jumped.
the producer price index for finished goods shot up 0.9% last month.energy prices jumped.
as energy prices jumped.tumbling through the summer.
it did play a role in the market's decline.the report, which was released before the stock market opened, didn't trigger the 190.58-point drop in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.
which was released.the stock market opened.
the Friday report, combined with the actions of the Fed, weakened the belief that there was going to be an imminent easing of monetary policy.economists were divided over the extent of the inflation threat signaled by the new numbers.
The overall 0.9% increase is serious in itself.what is even worse is that excluding food and energy, the producer price index still increased by 0.7%.
that excluding food and energy.the producer price index increased by 0.7%.
The overall 0.9% increase is serious in itself, but what is even worse is that excluding food and energy, the producer price index still increased by 0.7%," said Gordon Richards, an economist at the National Association of Manufacturers.Sung Won Sohn, chief economist at Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis, blamed rising energy prices and the annual autumn increase in car prices for most of the September jump.
when a steep run-up in world oil prices sent the index surging at double-digit annual rates.Energy prices plummeted through the summer.
that is still a steeper rise than the 4.0% increase for all of 1988.far more restrained than the pace at the beginning of the year.
While far more restrained than the pace at the beginning of the year, that is still a steeper rise than the 4.0% increase for all of 1988.this year's good inflation news may have ended last month, when energy prices zoomed up 6.5% after plunging 7.3% in August.
when energy prices zoomed up 6.5%.plunging 7.3% in August.
Analysts had expected that the climb in oil prices last month would lead to a substantial rise in the producer price index.the 0.9% climb was higher than most anticipated.
but the 0.9% climb was higher than most anticipated.that last month's rise "isn't as bad an omen" as the 0.9% figure suggests.
the increase is concentrated in energy and motor vehicle prices, rather than being a broad-based advance in the prices of consumer and industrial goods.you examine the data carefully.
Passenger car prices jumped 3.8% in September.climbing 0.5% in August and declining in the late spring and summer.
coming.dealers introduced their 1990 models.
coming.dealers introduced their 1990 models.
car prices rose beyond the customary autumn increase.all the price data were adjusted for normal seasonal fluctuations.
Prices for capital equipment rose a hefty 1.1% in September.prices for home electronic equipment fell 1.1%.
Prices for capital equipment rose a hefty 1.1% in September.prices for home electronic equipment fell 1.1%.
Food prices declined 0.6%.climbing 0.3% in August.
Prices for capital equipment rose a hefty 1.1% in September, while prices for home electronic equipment fell 1.1%..Food prices declined 0.6%, after climbing 0.3% in August.the retail sales report showed that car sales rose 0.8% in September to $32.82 billion.
Prices for capital equipment rose a hefty 1.1% in September, while prices for home electronic equipment fell 1.1%..Food prices declined 0.6%, after climbing 0.3% in August.the retail sales report showed that car sales rose 0.8% in September to $32.82 billion.
that car sales rose 0.8% in September to $32.82 billion.at least part of the increase could have come from higher prices.
Sales at general merchandise stores rose 1.7%.declining 0.6% in August.
Sales at general merchandise stores rose 1.7%.sales of building materials fell 1.8% after rising 1.7%.
while sales of building materials fell 1.8%.rising 1.7%.
Producer prices for intermediate goods grew 0.4% in September.dropping for three consecutive months.
Prices for crude goods, an array of raw materials, jumped 1.1%.declining 1.9% in August and edging up 0.2% in July.
nonperforming assets rose to slightly more than $700 million from $516 million between June and September..Approximately 85% of the total consisted of nonperforming commercial real estate assets.CityFed estimated that it will provide between $85 million and $110 million for credit losses in the third quarter.
nonperforming assets rose to slightly more than $700 million from $516 million between June and September that significant additional loan-loss provisions may be required by federal regulators as part of the current annual examination of City Federal Savings Bank, CityFed's primary subsidiary, based in Somerset, N.J.CityFed will mark its portfolio of high-yield corporate bonds to market as a result of federal legislation requiring that savings institutions divest themselves of such bonds.
nonperforming assets rose to slightly more than $700 million from $516 million between June and September that significant additional loan-loss provisions may be required by federal regulators as part of the current annual examination of City Federal Savings Bank, CityFed's primary subsidiary, based in Somerset, N.J CityFed will also mark its portfolio of high-yield corporate bonds to market as a result of federal legislation requiring that savings institutions divest themselves of such bonds.it expects to shed its remaining mortgage loan origination operations outside its principal markets in New Jersey and Florida and, as a result, is taking a charge for discontinued operations.
it expects to shed its remaining mortgage loan origination operations outside its principal markets in New Jersey and Florida.and is taking a charge for discontinued operations.
All these actions will result in a loss of $125 million to $150 million for the third quarter.Depending on the resolution of certain accounting issues relating to mortgages servicing and the outcome of the annual examination of City Federal currently in progress with respect to the appropriate level of loan loss reserves, the total loss for the quarter could significantly exceed this range.
federal thrift regulators ordered it to suspend dividend payments on its two classes of preferred stock.Regulators ordered CenTrust to stop buying back the preferred stock.
to stop paying common stock dividends.its operations were on track.
The Office of Thrift Supervision has been hounding CenTrust to provide current market values for its holdings.it can't easily obtain such values because of the relative illiquidity of the bonds and lack of a ready market.
saying the thrift's operating losses and "apparent" junk-bond losses "have been substantially offset by gains in other activities of the bank.He said substantial reserves have been set aside for possible losses from the junk bonds.
substantial reserves have been set aside for possible losses from the junk bonds.In the third quarter CenTrust added $22.5 million to its general reserves.
the regulators' decision.the regulators should move ahead with approving CenTrust's request to sell 63 of its 71 branches to Great Western Bank, a unit of Great Western Financial Corp. based in Beverly Hills, Calif.
Many interpret the delay as an indication that regulators are skeptical about the proposal.CenTrust touts the branch sale.
the sale would give it positive tangible capital of $82 million, or about 1.2% of assets, from a negative $33 million as of Sept. 30.bringing CenTrust close to regulatory standards.
the sale would give it positive tangible capital of $82 million, or about 1.2% of assets, from a negative $33 million as of Sept. 30, thus bringing CenTrust close to regulatory standards.the branch sale would reduce the company's large amount of good will by about $180 million.
CenTrust said the branch sale would also reduce the company's large amount of good will by about $180 million.Critics say the branch sale will make CenTrust more dependent than ever on brokered deposits and junk bonds.
by not renewing more than $1 billion of brokered certificates of deposit.they come due.
that he intends to further pare the size of CenTrust by not renewing more than $1 billion of brokered certificates of deposit when they come due.The thrift is working to unload its junk-bond portfolio by continuing to sell off the bonds, and it plans to eventually place some of them in a separate affiliate, as required under the new thrift law.
The thrift is also working to unload its junk-bond portfolio by continuing to sell off the bonds.it plans to eventually place some of them in a separate affiliate.
that she could name any of 100 different cheeses after just one nibble.blindfolded.
The woman won the bet.perhaps even more remarkable, the three-hour-show, "Wetten Dass" (Make a Bet), regularly wins the top slot in the country's TV ratings, sometimes drawing as many as 50% of West German households.
Europe's cultural curators have taken to the ramparts against American "cultural imperialism.the 1992 economic integration approaches.
As the 1992 economic integration approaches, Europe's cultural curators have taken to the ramparts against American "cultural imperialism.much of what the Europeans want to protect seems every bit as cheesy as what they are trying to keep out.
few boast the high culture and classy production values one might expect.there are some popular action and drama series.
that viewers clamored to buy a chocolate product, "Cacao Fantastico," whose praises were sung each week by dancing showgirls.the product didn't exist.
Topping the cheese stunt, on another typical evening of fun on "Wetten Dass," a contestant won a bet with the show's host, Thomas Gottschalk, that he could identify 300 German dialects over the telephone.A celebrity guest, U.S. Ambassador to West Germany Richard Burt won a bet that someone could pile up $150 worth of quarters on a slanted coin.
A celebrity guest, U.S. Ambassador to West Germany Richard Burt, also won a bet that someone could pile up $150 worth of quarters on a slanted coin.Mr. Burt paid the penalty as if he had lost.
Mr. Burt nonetheless paid the penalty.he had lost.
it may be because these shows need all the protection they can get.this seems like pretty weak stuff around which to raise the protectionist barriers.
it may be.these shows need all the protection they can get.
Most British programming is more of an acquired taste.There is "One Man and His Dog," a herding contest among sheep dogs.
There is, for instance, "One Man and His Dog," a herding contest among sheep dogs.riveting to the British are hours of dart-throwing championships, even more hours of lawn bowling contests and still more hours of snooker marathons.
which ended.the female lead was injured in a real-life auto accident.
which ended.the female lead was injured in a real-life auto accident.
The trend is pretty well established.local programs are the most popular, with American programs second.
Given a choice, everybody will watch a home-produced show.frequently there isn't much choice.
Given a choice, everybody will watch a home-produced show.".But frequently there isn't much choice.Europe has begun the recent crusade to produce more worthy shows of its own, programs with broader appeal.
here many believe that its absence is to blame for the European TV industry's sluggish development.some in the U.S. contend that advertising is the bane of television.
it didn't matter that a program couldn't be sold abroad or put into syndication.production costs were guaranteed.
Since production costs were guaranteed, it didn't matter that a program couldn't be sold abroad or put into syndication.not much money was spent on the shows, either, a situation that encouraged cheap-to-make talk and game shows, while discouraging expensive-to-produce dramas.
that encouraged cheap-to-make talk and game shows.discouraging expensive-to-produce dramas.
that encouraged cheap-to-make talk and game shows.discouraging expensive-to-produce dramas.
Until recently, national governments in Europe controlled most of the air time and allowed little or no advertising.Now commercial channels are coming to most European countries, and at the same time, satellite and cable technology is spreading rapidly.
Now, however, commercial channels are coming to most European countries.at the same time, satellite and cable technology is spreading rapidly.
Just last week, Greece authorized two commercial channels for the first time.Spain began to allow commercial television alongside its state channels.
The result is a new and huge appetite for programming.perhaps to the consternation of those calling for quotas, most of this void is likely to be filled with the cheapest and most plentiful programming now available -- reruns -- usually of shows made in the U.S.
Most threatened by closer British Aerospace-Thomson ties would be their respective national rivals, including Matra S.A. in France and Britain's General Electric Co. PLC.neither Matra nor GEC -- unrelated to Stamford, Conn.-based General Electric Co. -- are sitting quietly by as their competitors join forces.
But neither Matra nor GEC -- unrelated to Stamford, Conn.-based General Electric Co. -- are sitting quietly by.their competitors join forces.
But neither Matra nor GEC -- unrelated to Stamford, Conn.-based General Electric Co. -- are sitting quietly by.their competitors join forces.
that his company may join the Ferranti fight, as part of a possible consortium that would bid against British Aerospace and Thomson-CSF.it may be weeks before GEC and its potential partners decide whether to bid.
But it may be weeks before GEC and its potential partners decide whether to bid.any GEC bid might be blocked by British antitrust regulators.
Ferranti is GEC's main competitor on several key defense-electronics contracts.its purchase by GEC may heighten British Defense Ministry worries about concentration in the country's defense industry.
Ferranti is GEC's main competitor on several key defense-electronics contracts, and its purchase by GEC may heighten British Defense Ministry worries about concentration in the country's defense industry.A consortium bid would diminish GEC's direct role in Ferranti and might consequently appease ministry officials.
A consortium bid, however, would diminish GEC's direct role in Ferranti.and might appease ministry officials.
For both Thomson and British Aerospace, earnings in their home markets have come under pressure from increasingly tight-fisted defense ministries.Middle East sales, a traditional mainstay for both companies' exports, have been hurt by five years of weak oil prices.
The European defense industry is consolidating.West Germany's Siemens AG recently joined GEC in a takeover of Britain's Plessey Co., and Daimler-Benz agreed to buy Messerschmitt-Boelkow Blohm G.m.b..H.
for instance, West Germany's Siemens AG recently joined GEC in a takeover of Britain's Plessey Co.Daimler-Benz agreed to buy Messerschmitt-Boelkow Blohm G.m.b..H.
it will delay a proposed two-step, 830 million Canadian-dollar (US$705.6 million) expansion of its system.Canada's output of crude oil is shrinking.
The capability of existing fields to deliver oil is dropping.oil exploration activity is also down dramatically.
The capability of existing fields to deliver oil is dropping.and oil exploration activity is down dramatically.
The capability of existing fields to deliver oil is dropping," and oil exploration activity is also down dramatically.many producers shift their emphasis to natural gas.
The capability of existing fields to deliver oil is dropping," and oil exploration activity is also down dramatically.many producers shift their emphasis to natural gas.
the outlook for natural gas is better than it is for oil.and have shifted their exploration and development budgets.
The number of active drilling rigs in Canada is down 30% from a year ago.the number of completed oil wells is "down more than that, due to the increasing focus on gas exploration.
Interprovincial transports about 75% of all crude produced in western Canada.almost 60% of Interprovincial's total volume consists of light crude.
It's very much a growing concern.when something is inevitable, you learn to live with it.
But you learn to live with it.something is inevitable.
Canada's declining crude output, combined with the fast-shrinking output of U.S. crude, will help intensify U.S. reliance on oil from overseas, particularly the Middle East.that the delay of Interprovincial's proposed expansion won't by itself increase U.S. dependence on offshore crude.
that the delay of Interprovincial's proposed expansion won't by itself increase U.S. dependence on offshore crude, however.Canadian imports are limited in any case by Canada's falling output.
a modest increase.compared with the sizzling expansion of years past.
Investors -- taking this as a sign that a broad industry slump was in the offing -- reacted by selling the company's stock, which lost $3.25 that day to close at $52 in national over-the-counter trading.that was all of three months ago.
Among those companies expected to have a down quarter are Hewlett-Packard Co., Amdahl Corp. and Sun Microsystems Inc., generally solid performers in the past.International Business Machines Corp is expected to report disappointing results.
Among those companies expected to have a down quarter are Hewlett-Packard Co., Amdahl Corp. and Sun Microsystems Inc., generally solid performers in the past..International Business Machines Corp. also is expected to report disappointing results.Apple Computer Inc. is expected to show improved earnings for the period ended Sept.
that booming sales of new personal computers from Apple and IBM had resulted in net income more than doubling for its fourth quarter ended June 30 to $7.4 million, or 23 cents a share.that results for its first quarter ended Sept. 30 hadn't met expectations.
the major forces expected to shape the industry in the coming year are clearer.the earnings picture confuses.
Until recently, Adobe had a lock on the market for image software.last month Apple, Adobe's biggest customer, and Microsoft rebelled.
Now the two firms are collaborating on an alternative to Adobe's approach.they are likely to carry IBM, the biggest seller of personal computers, along with them.
In computer publishing, a battle over typefaces is hurting Adobe Systems Inc.The short-term outlook for Adobe's business appears strong.
the Mountain View, Calif., company has been receiving 1,000 calls a day about the product.it was demonstrated at a computer publishing conference several weeks ago.
In computer publishing, a battle over typefaces is hurting Adobe Systems Inc., which sells software that controls the image produced by printers and displays.competition between various operating systems, which control the basic functions of a computer, spells trouble for software firms generally.
Companies will continue to war over standards.the battle of the bus is expected to grow increasingly irrelevant.
IBM is backing one type of bus called microchannel.the nine other leading computer makers, including H-P and Compaq Computer Corp., have chosen another method.
Users don't care about the bus.Apple's family of Macintosh computers uses four different buses "and no one seems to mind.
Apple's family of Macintosh computers, for instance, uses four different buses.no one seems to mind.
Some lagging competitors even may leave the personal computer business altogether.Wyse Technology is considered a candidate to sell its troubled operation.
Wyse has done well establishing a distribution business.they haven't delivered products that sell.
As a result of this trend, longtime powerhouses H-P, IBM and Digital Equipment Corp. are scrambling to counterattack with microprocessor-based systems of their own.they will have to act quickly.
Compaq to unveil a family of high-end personal computers later this year that are powerful enough to serve as the hub for communications within large networks of desk-top machines.A raft of new computer companies has targeted this "server" market.
The gains, to be sure, are rather small.Iowa saw its population grow by 11,000 people, or 0.4%, between 1987 and 1988, the Census Bureau says.
Iowa, for instance, saw its population grow by 11,000 people, or 0.4%, between 1987 and 1988.even that modest increase is good news for a state that hadn't grown at all since 1981.
Seven of nine states have grown each year since 1980, including New York, which lost 4% of its population during the 1970s.although Pennsylvania and Massachusetts suffered slight declines earlier in the decade, they are growing again.
And they are growing again.Pennsylvania and Massachusetts suffered slight declines earlier in the decade.
At the same time, several states in the South and West have had their own population turnaround.Overall the South and West still outpace the Northeast and Midwest.
Overall, though, the South and West still outpace the Northeast and Midwest.fast-growing states like Florida and California ensure that the pattern will continue.
Overall, though, the South and West still outpace the Northeast and Midwest, and fast-growing states like Florida and California ensure that the pattern will continue.the growth gap between the Sun Belt and other regions has clearly started narrowing.
THANKS TO modern medicine, more couples are growing old together.even after losing a spouse, more of the elderly are staying independent.
And more of the elderly are staying independent.losing a spouse.
THANKS TO modern medicine, more couples are growing old together.This doesn't mean they're less likely to live alone.
many become widowed.people get even older.
As people get even older, many become widowed.even among those aged 75 and older, the share living with a spouse rose slightly, to 40% in 1988 from 38% in 1970.
More people are remaining independent longer.they are better off physically and financially.
Two-thirds of respondents said they strongly felt the need to be successful in their jobs.fewer than half said they strongly felt the need to spend more time with their families.
Average household income for the sample was $194,000.average net assets were reported as $775,000.
they control nearly one-third of discretionary income.they represent only 2% of the population.
Despite their considerable incomes and assets, 40% of the respondents in the study don't feel financially secure.one-fourth don't feel that they have made it.
only 25% give $2,500 or more to charity each year.twothirds feel some guilt about being affluent.
About 54% are women.44% are part-time students.
and that rhymes with P.that stands for pool.
they were worried about setting a precedent that would permit pool halls along Addison's main street.the mayor, in an admonition that bears a rhythmic resemblance to Prof..Hill's, warned that "alcohol leads to betting, which leads to fights.
Pool is hot in New York and Chicago where "upscale, suit-and-tie places" are adding tables.rowdy behavior seems unlikely at the Grand Kempinski, where rooms average $200 a night and the cheap mixed drinks go for $3.50 a pop.
where rooms average $200 a night.the cheap mixed drinks go for $3.50 a pop.
Pool is hot in New York and Chicago where "upscale, suit-and-tie places" are adding tables With today's tougher drunk driving laws people don't want to just sit around and drink Besides, rowdy behavior seems unlikely at the Grand Kempinski, where rooms average $200 a night and the cheap mixed drinks go for $3.50 a pop..At the lounge, manager Elizabeth Dyer won't admit patrons in jeans, T-shirts or tennis shoes.a majority of the Addison council didn't buy those arguments.
an investigation disclosed that town officials regularly voted on their own projects, gave special favors to developer friends and dipped into the town's coffers for trips and retreats.its previous mayor committed suicide last year.
The revelations embarrassed town officials.they argued that the problems weren't as severe as the media suggested.
unfortunately neither he nor the producers of the show have done their homework.Haole" (white) is not the ultimate insult; "Mainland haole" is.
For instance: "Haole" (white) is not the ultimate insult; "Mainland haole" is.the local expression for brother is "brah," not "bruddah.
And the local expression for brother is "brah," not "bruddah.even if a nurse would wear flowers in her hair while on duty, if she were engaged she would know to wear them behind her left, not right, ear.
And if she were engaged she would know to wear them behind her left, not right, ear.a nurse would wear flowers in her hair while on duty.
even if a nurse would wear flowers in her hair.on duty.
And she would know to wear them behind her left, not right, ear.she were engaged.
A good bet would be the tension between blacks and Jews in New York City.so it must seem to Jackie Mason, the veteran Jewish comedian appearing in a new ABC sitcom airing on Tuesday nights (9:30-10 p.m. EDT).
Not only is Mr. Mason the star of "Chicken Soup.he's the inheritor of a comedic tradition dating back to "Duck Soup," and he's currently a man in hot water.
he's also the inheritor of a comedic tradition dating back to "Duck Soup.he's currently a man in hot water.
quoted first in the Village Voice.he was a paid spokesman for the Rudolph Giuliani mayoral campaign.
and then in Newsweek.he and the campaign parted company.
that many Jewish voters feel guilty toward blacks.they support black candidates uncritically.
that many black voters feel bitter about racial discrimination.they, too, support black candidates uncritically.
He said Jews were "sick with complexes.he called David Dinkins, Mr. Giuliani's black opponent, "a fancy shvartze with a mustache.
would the water be quite so hot.Mr. Mason had used less derogatory language to articulate his amateur analysis of the voting behavior of his fellow New Yorkers.
It probably would.few or none of the people upset by Mr. Mason's remarks have bothered to distinguish between the substance of his comments and the fact that he used insulting language.
because few or none of the people upset by Mr. Mason's remarks have bothered to distinguish between the substance of his comments and the fact that he used insulting language.some of Mr. Mason's critics have implied that his type of ethnic humor is itself a form of racism.
In addition, some of Mr. Mason's critics have implied that his type of ethnic humor is itself a form of racism.the New York state counsel for the NAACP said that Mr. Mason is "like a dinosaur..People are fast leaving the place where he is stuck.
The latter typically is the humor of the underdog.it was perfected by both blacks and Jews on the minstrel and vaudeville stage as a means of mocking their white and gentile audiences along with themselves.
In the hands of a zealot like Lenny Bruce, this double-edged blade could cut both the self and the audience to ribbons.wielded by a pro like Jackie Mason, it is a constructive form of mischief.
Why constructive.despite all the media prattle about comedy and politics not mixing, they are similar in one respect: Both can serve as mechanisms for easing tensions and facilitating the co-existence of groups in conflict.
Perhaps intolerance would not boil over with such intensity.honest differences were allowed to simmer.
group conflicts still exist.what other means do we have for letting off steam.
if group conflicts still exist.if Mr. Mason's type of ethnic humor is passe.
Mr. Mason's type of ethnic humor is passe.and what other means do we have for letting off steam.
Don't say the TV sitcom.that happens to be a genre that, in its desperate need to attract everybody and offend nobody, resembles politics more than it does comedy.
that the best sitcoms do allow group differences to simmer: yuppies vs. blue-collar Bostonians in "Cheers"; children vs. adults in "The Cosby Show.these are not the differences that make headlines.
that the plot has entered the public domain.it has remained there.
Clearly, the question with "Chicken Soup" is not whether the pot will boil over.whether it will simmer at all.
To some extent, this tendency emerges whenever the show tries to enlighten us about ethnic stereotypes by reversing them.Michael dislikes Jackie not because he's a shrewd Jewish businessman, but because he quits his well-paying job as a salesman in order to become a social worker.
For instance, Michael dislikes Jackie.he's a shrewd Jewish businessman.
not because he's a shrewd Jewish businessman.because he quits his well-paying job as a salesman in order to become a social worker.
For instance, Michael dislikes Jackie.but he quits his well-paying job as a salesman in order to become a social worker.
The best moments in the show occur at the beginning and the end (and occasionally in the middle), when Mr. Mason slips into his standup mode and starts meting out that old-fashioned Jewish mischief to other people as well as to himself.too often, these routines lack spark.
But too often, these routines lack spark.this sitcom, like all sitcoms, is timid about confronting Mr. Mason's stock in trade-ethnic differences.
That issue, like racial tensions in New York City, will have to cool down, not heat up.it can simmer.
I'm not suggesting that the producers start putting together episodes about topics like the Catholic-Jewish dispute over the Carmelite convent at Auschwitz.I am suggesting that they stop requiring Mr. Mason to interrupt his classic shtik with some line about "caring for other people" that would sound shmaltzy on the lips of Miss America.
The economy remains well-balanced.the outlook is for continued moderate growth.
Lawmakers drastically streamlined the bill to blunt criticism that it was bloated with special-interest tax breaks and spending increases.that other bills would soon be moving through Congress that could carry some of the measures that had been cast aside, including a capital-gains tax cut.
that other bills would soon be moving through Congress that could carry some of the measures that had been cast aside, including a capital-gains tax cut.the companion deficit-reduction bill already passed by the House includes a capital-gains provision.
No one can predict exactly what will happen on the House side.I believe Republicans and Democrats will work together to get capital-gains reform this year.
that will help a great deal.that's the signal that comes from the White House.
he was "confident" that any House-Senate agreement on the deficit-reduction legislation wouldn't include a capital-gains tax cut.there aren't any "plans to produce another tax bill that could carry a gains tax cut this year.
President Bush has until midnight tonight to enact across-the-board spending cuts mandated by the Gramm-Rudman deficit-reduction law.the legislation hasn't been completed.
it is uncertain whether a clean bill can be achieved in the upcoming conference with the Senate.I am encouraged by the Senate action.
He has been resisting a stripped-down bill without a guaranteed vote on his capital-gains tax cut.Republican senators saw no way to overcome a procedural hurdle and garner the 60 votes needed to win the capital-gains issue on the floor, so they went ahead with the streamlined bill.
But Republican senators saw no way to overcome a procedural hurdle and garner the 60 votes needed to win the capital-gains issue on the floor.they went ahead with the streamlined bill.
The Senate bill was stripped of many popular, though revenue-losing, provisions.missing from the Senate bill is the House's repeal of a law that compels companies to give rank-and-file workers comparable health benefits to top paid executives.
but was cut out.it lost money.
To the delight of some doctors, the bill dropped a plan passed by the Finance Committee that would have overhauled the entire physician-reimbursement system under Medicare.To the detriment of many low-income people, efforts to boost Medicaid funding, especially in rural areas were stricken.
It worked.there were no exceptions.
To the detriment of many low-income people, efforts to boost Medicaid funding, especially in rural areas, also were stricken.The Senate dropped a plan by its Finance Committee that would have increased the income threshold beyond which senior citizens have their Social Security benefits reduced.
The Senate bill was stripped of many popular, though revenue-losing, provisions, a number of which are included in the House-passed bill..These include a child-care initiative and extensions of soon-to-expire tax breaks for low-income housing and research-and-development expenditures..Also missing from the Senate bill is the House's repeal of a law, called Section 89, that compels companies to give rank-and-file workers comparable health benefits to top paid executives..One high-profile provision that was originally in the Senate bill but was cut out because it lost money was the proposal by Chairman Lloyd Bentsen (D., Texas) of the Senate Finance Committee to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts..Mr. Bentsen said he hopes the Senate will consider that measure soon. To the delight of some doctors, the bill dropped a plan passed by the Finance Committee that would have overhauled the entire physician-reimbursement system under Medicare..To the detriment of many low-income people, efforts to boost Medicaid funding, especially in rural areas, also were stricken The Senate also dropped a plan by its Finance Committee that would have increased the income threshold beyond which senior citizens have their Social Security benefits reduced.the bill dropped a plan to make permanent a 3% excise tax on long-distance telephone calls.
It no longer includes a plan that would have repealed what remains of the completed-contract method of accounting.It drops a provision that would have permitted corporations to use excess pension funds to pay health benefits for current retirees.
It also drops a provision that would have permitted corporations to use excess pension funds to pay health benefits for current retirees.stricken was a fivefold increase in the maximum Occupational Safety and Health Administration penalties.
Mr. Mitchell's relations with Budget Director Darman have been strained.Mr. Darman chose to bypass the Maine Democrat and deal with other lawmakers earlier this year during a dispute over drug funding in the fiscal 1989 supplemental spending bill.
Mr. Mitchell's relations with Budget Director Darman have been strained.Mr. Darman chose to bypass the Maine Democrat and deal with other lawmakers earlier this year during a dispute over drug funding in the fiscal 1989 supplemental spending bill.
The measure repeals a 50% exclusion given to banks on the interest from loans used to acquire securities for an ESOP.the ESOP owns less than 30% of the employer's stock.
The deficit reduction bill contains $5.3 billion in tax increases in fiscal 1990, and $26 billion over five years.The measure includes spending cuts and increases in federal fees.
My unemployment insurance ran out.I found a job.
don't worry.you're getting laid off.
if you're getting laid off don't worry.if you're unemployed, it's a seller's market.
and it's a seller's market.you're unemployed.
Wall Street suffered another severe attack of nerves.it seemed safe to go back into stocks.
Does this signal another Black Monday is coming.is this an extraordinary buying opportunity, just like Oct. 19, 1987, eventually turned out to be.
what happens next.what investors should do.
Well, in some ways it is different.technically it is just the same.
you obey the signals.you're a technician.
